RULES
Antoine Bauza

Lead one of the seven great cities of the Ancient world. Exploit the
natural resources of your lands, take part in the eternal march of
progress, develop your commercial relationships and assert your
military might.
Leave your mark in the history of civilization by building an
architectural marvel that will transcend the ages to come.
Contents
• 7 Wonder boards
• 7 Wonder cards
• 49 Age I cards
• 49 Age II cards
• 50 Age III cards
• 46 Conflict tokens
• 24 value 3 coins
• 46 value 1 coins
• 1 score booklet
• 1 rulebook
• 2 « 2 player » cards
Game overview and goal
A game of 7 Wonders takes place over 3 Ages, each using one of the 3 card
decks (first the Age I cards, then Age II, and finally Age III).
These Ages are each played similarly, with each player having the opportunity
to play 6 cards per Age to develop his or her city and build their Wonder.
At the end of each Age, each player compares their military might with their
two neighboring cities (belonging to the players to their right and left).
At the end of the third Age, the players count their victory points ; the
player with the most points wins the game.
· 2 ·

Game Elements
Wonder Boards
Each board represents the Wonder the player can build and the resource
it produces from the start of the game (shown on the upper left of the
board). These boards are double-sided and offer two different versions
of the Wonder. Each Wonder is composed of two, three or four stages,
represented on the board. Each stage has a construction cost and gives
a bonus when finished.
Coins
The coins come into play in commercial transactions tying a city to its two
neighboring cities.
There is no limit to the number of coins a player can accumulate during a game.
Accumulated coins are worth victory points at the end of the game.
Conflict Tokens
The Conflict tokens are used to represent the military victories and defeats
between neighboring cities.
4 types of tokens are used :
• the Defeat tokens with a value of -1 are used at the end of each of
the 3 ages.
• the Victory tokens with a value of +1 are used at the end of Age I.
• the Victory tokens with a value of +3 are used at the end of Age II.
• the Victory tokens with a value of +5 are used at the end of Age III.
Cards
In 7 Wonders, all the Age cards represent structures.
There are 7 different types of structures, easily recognizable by the bor-
der color of their card.
• Raw Materials (brown cards) : these structures produce resources :
• Manufactured Goods (gray cards) : these structures produce resources :
• Civilian Structures (blue cards) : these structures score victory points.
• Scientific Structures (green cards) : these structures score victory
points depending on your progress in the three scientific fields :
• Commercial Structures (yellow cards) : these buildings earn coins,
produce resources, change commerce rules and sometimes earn
victory points.
• Military Structures (red cards) : these buildings increase your military
might. This comes into play during Conflict resolution.
• Guilds (purple cards) : these buildings allow players to score points
according to specific criteria.Note : the Age III deck contains no Raw Materials (brown cards) or Manu-
factured Goods (gray cards), but it does contain the Guilds (purple cards).
Cards cost
The area in the upper left indicates the construction cost. If that area is
empty, the structure is free and requires no resources for its construction.
Example : the Marketplace is free, the Mine costs one coin, the Baths
require one stone to be built and the Arena requires two stones and
one ore.
Starting in Age II, some structures can be built either by paying the requisite
resource(s) or, alternatively, they can be built for free if the player has built
during the previous age the structure indicated on the card.
Example : the construction of the Stables requires one brick, one wood
and one ore OR possession of the Apothecary.
The lower right area indicates which structures (if any) may be built for
free in the following age due to this card.
Example : if built during Age I, the Scriptorium will allow the building of
the Library and the Courthouse for free during Age II.
The lower center area indicates in which configuration – number of players
– the card is used.
Example : in a 4 player game, the 3+ and 4+ cards are used.
Game Set-up
One deck of cards per Age
For each of the 3 decks, return to the box all cards which are not used
based on the number of players.
Example : in a 6 player game, the 3+, 4+, 5+ and 6+ cards are used. The
7+ cards are returned to the box.
Moreover, for the Age III deck :
• Remove the 10 Guilds (purple cards) and randomly (and secretly) keep
only the number required based on the number of players.
• Then, shuffle the kept Guilds cards kept with the other cards to make
up the Age III deck.
Note :
- If you have correctly removed the cards at the beginning of the game,
all of the cards in play should be dealt at the beginning of each Age (7
cards per player).
- For inquiring minds, the number of Guilds to be kept is equal to the
number of players +2.
Wonders
Shuffle the 7 Wonder cards, face down, and hand one to each player. The
card and its facing determine the Wonders board given to each player as
well as the side to be used during the game.
Notes :
- For your first few games, you should use side A of the boards, as they
are simpler to use.
- If all the players agree, the Wonders boards can be chosen instead of
randomly given.
Coins
Each player begins the game with 3 value “1” coins which they place on
their board.
The remaining coins form the bank (players may “make change” between
the value “3” and “1” coins as needed).
Conflict Tokens
The Conflict tokens form a reserve, next to the coins.
3 Players : 5 Guilds
4 Players : 6 Guilds
5 Players : 7 Guilds
6 Players : 8 Guilds
7 Players : 9 Guilds
· 3 ·

Construction in 7 Wonders
Throughout all 3 ages in a game, the players will get to build structures
(cards) and Wonders (board).
• Most structures have a resource cost. Some are free and some have
a coin cost. Some also have a resource cost and a free construction
condition.
• The Wonders all have a resource cost.
Coin Cost
Some brown cards cost a coin which must be paid to the bank on the turn
in which they are constructed.Example : the construction of the Timber yard costs 1 coin.
Free Construction
Some cards have no cost and can be put into play for free.Example : the construction of the Eastern Trading Post is free.
Resource Cost
Some cards have a resource cost.
To construct them, the player must produce the corresponding resources
AND/OR buy them from one of his or her two neighboring cities.
Production
The resources of a city are produced by its Wonder board, its brown cards,
its gray cards, and some yellow cards.
To build a structure, a player’s city must produce the resources indicated
on its card.Example : Giza produces 2 Stones, 1 Clay, 1 Ore, 1 Papyrus and 1 Textile :
- its player can build the Barracks (cost : 1 Ore) or the Scriptorium
(cost : 1 Papyrus) as his city produces the required resources.
- its player cannot build the Aqueduct (cost : 3 Stones) as his city only
produces two of the three stones required by that structure.
Important : the resources are not spent during construction.
They can be used each turn, for the entire game. The production
of a city is never reduced (the cards played are never discarded).
Commerce
Often, a player will want to build a structure requiring resources he or
she does not produce.
If these resources are produced by a neighboring city – players sitting
directly to the left or right of that player – the player will be able to pur-
chase the missing resource(s) through commerce.
The resources a player can buy from their neighboring cities are :
• the resources initially produced by the city (as indicated on the board)
• the resources from its brown cards (raw materials)
• the resources from its gray cards (manufactured goods)
However, it is impossible to buy the resources produced by some commer-
cial structures (yellow cards) or by some Wonders : these resources are
reserved to their owner.
For each resource bought, the player must give 2 coins to the owner of
the resource.
Clarifications :
• selling a resource to a neighboring city DOES NOT prevent a player
from using it, during the same turn, for his own construction purposes.
• it is possible, during the same turn, to buy one or more resources
from both neighboring cities.
• the resources bought can only be used on the turn in which they
are bought.
• players can never refuse to sell resources.
• some commercial structures (yellow cards) reduce the monetary
costs of buying resources from 2 to 1 coin.
• if both cities neighboring a player produce a coveted resource, that
player is free to purchase from either player.
• to buy resources, the player must have the coins at the beginning of
the turn. The coins earned through commerce during a turn cannot
be used on that turn, only during the next one.
Example A : a player wants to build a University (cost : 2 Wood +1 Glass +
1 Papyrus). Her city only produces a single Wood and a single Glass.
One of her neighbors produces a wood resource, while the other
produces a papyrus resource..
The player pays 2 coins to each neighboring player to gain their
respective resources and build her structure.
Example B : during a game turn, both neighboring cities buy from her 2
Stones for a total of 8 coins (2 per resource).
In the same turn, she can build a Library (cost : 2 Stones + 1 Textile)
thanks to her resources, even though she has sold them to her
neighboring cities.
Example C : the player mentioned previously would like to build a Forum
(cost : 2 Clay) ; she produces 1 Clay and a neighboring city also produces some.
At the beginning of her turn, she does not have enough coins in the
treasury. Even if the neighboring city buys one of her resources this turn,
she can’t spend the coins gained to immediately buy the missing Clay.
This money will only be available for commerce starting on the
following turn. The construction of the Forum is therefore impossible
this turn, the player will have to take a different action...
Free Construction (Chains)
Some structures in Age II and Age III have, to the right of their resource
cost, the name of a structure of a previous age.
If the player has built the structure named there during a previous Age,
that player can build the structure for free, meaning without having to
fulfill the resource cost.
Example : the Library can be built for free during Age II if the player has
built the Scriptorium during Age I.
Example : built during Age I, the Theater allows a player to build the
Statue for free during Age II and this, in turn, allows a player to build the
Gardens for free during Age III.
· 4 ·

Game Overview
A game begins with Age I, continues with Age II and ends with Age III. Vic-
tory points are counted only at the end of Age III.
Overview of an Age
At the beginning of each Age, each player receives a hand of 7 cards, dealt
randomly, from the corresponding deck.
Each Age is made up of 6 game turns. During each turn the players put into
play a single card, simultaneously.
A game turn takes place as follows :
• 1. Choose a card
• 2. Action
• 3. Give your hand of cards to the player sitting to your left or right
and receive another hand of cards from the player sitting next to you.
1. Choose a Card
Each player looks at their hand without showing it to other players and
selects a card before placing it face down before them.
The remaining cards are placed between their left-hand neighbor and
themselves (see end of an Age).
2. Action
Once every player has selected his or her card, they perform their action
simultaneously.
Three actions are possible with the chosen card :
• a. Build the structure
• b. Build a stage of their Wonder
• c. Discard the card to gain 3 coinsNote : during your first game, you can follow the action of each player,
one after the other, to become more familiar with the game...
2.a. Build the Structure
Most often, the player will build the structure represented by the selected
card (see Construction in 7 Wonders).
Important : a player can never build two identical structures
(meaning those with the same name/the same illustration).
2.b. Build a Stage of a Wonder
To build each stage of his or her Wonder, the player will use a card of their
choice as a construction marker :
To do that, the player must pay the price shown on the Wonder board and
not the one shown on the structure’s card.
The player then plays the card, face down, half hidden under the Wonder
board to show that this stage of their Wonder is now built. The card then
has no other effect, and is not considered to be a structure.
Example : a player wants to build the second stage of his Wonder, the
Lighthouse of Alexandria. He chooses one card from his hand. His City
grants him the two units of Ore required for his construction, he the-
refore places his card in front of the wonder stage, half covered by his
board in order to indicate that this stage has been constructed.
Clarification :
• The stages of a Wonder MUST be built in order, meaning from left to right.
• the construction of the Wonder is not mandatory. A player can win
the game without having finished (or even started) the construction
of his or her Wonder.
• the card used to mark the construction of a Wonder stage remains
hidden. Players would be advised to use a card they do not want to
give their neighbor (see Move on to the next hand).
• most Wonders have 3 stages but these are not associated with Ages.
It is therefore possible to build multiple Wonder stages in a single
Age or to begin construction during age III.
• each stage can only built once per game.
2.c. Discard the Card to Gain 3 Coins
A player can choose to discard his or her card to take 3 coins from the bank
and add them to his or her treasury.
The cards discarded this way remain face down and form a discard pile in
the center of the table. It can be useful to discard a card you cannot build
but which would be of interest to your neighbor.
Note : if a player has chosen a card but is unable to build either the struc-
ture or the Wonder stage, that player is then forced to discard the card
and takes 3 coins from the bank.
3. Move on to the next hand
Each player takes the hand of cards handed from his or her neighbor.
Be careful : the direction of the hands rotation changes with
each Age :
• during Age I, the hand of cards is passed to the player
sitting to the left (clockwise).
• during Age II, the hand of cards is passed to the player
sitting to the right (counter-clockwise).
• during Age III, the hand of cards is passed to the player
sitting to the left (clockwise).
Special case : sixth turn
At the beginning of the sixth and final turn of each Age, the players will
receive a two-card hand from their neighboring player.
Each player then chooses one (like in previous turns) and the second is
then discarded, face down.
The selected card is then played normally.
Then the Age ends.
Clarification : the unselected and discarded card is discarded without the
players getting 3 coins for it.
Example : Sophie gets a hand of 7 cards at the beginning of the first Age.
In the first turn, she puts into play one of her cards.
She then hands the remaining 6 cards to the player sitting to her left,
and gets a hand of 6 cards from the player to her right.
Later, during the sixth game turn, she gets a 2 card hand from the player
to her right. She discards one and puts the other one in play according
to the game’s rules.
End of an Age
Each Age ends after its sixth game turn.
The players must then proceed to the resolution of military conflicts.
Each player compares the total number of shields present on their military
structures (red cards) with the total of each of the two neighboring cities :
• If a player has a higher total than a neighboring city, that
player takes a Victory token corresponding to the Age just
played (Age I : +1, Age II : +3 or Age III : +5)
• If a player has a lower total than that of a neighboring city,
that player takes a Defeat token (-1 victory point)
• If a player has an equal total to that of a neighboring city,
no token is taken.
Each player therefore gets, depending on the situation, 0, 1 or 2 tokens
which are placed on his or her Wonder board.
Example : Age II has just ended. Alexandria (3 Shields) shares a border
with Rhodes (5 Shields) to the left, and Ephesus (2 Shields) to the right.
Alexandria takes a Defeat token (-1 victory point) and places it on the
left side of their board as well as a Victory token (+3 victory points,
Age II), placed on the right side of their board.
The brown and gray cards are placed beneath one another starting
from the upper left corner of the Wonders board. This allows players
to quickly see all resources produced by each player.
The other cards are placed face up, in the area in front of the player’s
Wonders board. All of this area corresponds to a player’s city.
In order to save space, stack your cards by color while leaving the name
of each structure visible.
CARD PLACEMENT
· 5 ·

STRATEGIC ADVICES
End of the Game
The game ends at the end of the third Age, after the Conflict tokens have
been handed out.
Each player totals their civilization points and the player with the highest
total is declared the winner.
In case of a tie, the player with the most coins in his or her treasury is the
winner. A tie on coins is not broken further.Note : a booklet of scorecards is in the box to help you count the points
for your first few games... or keep track of your more memorable games !
Totalling the points
Count the victory points in this order :
• 1. Military conflicts
• 2. Treasury contents
• 3. Wonder
• 4. Civilian structures
• 5. Scientific structures
• 6. Commercial structures
• 7. Guilds
1. Military Conflicts
Each player adds their Victory and Defeat tokens (this total can be negative !).
Example : Alexandria has finished the game with the following tokens :
+1, +3, +5, -1, -1, -1 for a total of 6 points.
2. Treasury Contents
For every 3 coins in their possession at the end of the game, players score
1 victory point. Leftover coins score no points.
Example : Alexandria has finished the game with 14 coins in their
treasury, which earns them 4 victory points (4 sets of 3 coins plus one
partial set).
3. Wonders
Each player then adds to their score the victory points from their wonder.
Example : Alexandria has built all 3 stages of their Wonder (side A) ;
10 victory points (3 for the first phase and 7 for the third) are added to
their total.
4. Civilian Structures
Each player adds the victory points of their Civilian structures. This amount
is indicated on each Civilian structure.
Example : Alexandria has built the following civilian structures : Altar
(2VP), Aqueduct (5VP) and Town Hall (6VP) for a total of 13 victory points.
5. Scientific Structures
The scientific cards earn victory points in two very different ways : from
sets of identical symbols and from sets of 3 different symbols.
Be careful : the victory points earned by both methods are
cumulative.
Sets of identical symbols
For each of the 3 existing scientific symbols, the player wins the following
points :
• only 1 symbol : 1 victory point
• 2 identical symbols : 4 victory points
• 3 identical symbols : 9 victory points
• 4 identical symbols : 16 victory points
Note :
- the number of points gained is equal to the number of symbols squared.
- there are 4 green cards for each symbol, for a maximum of 16 victory
points per family of symbols.
- this maximum can be increased with the Scientific Guild and the Won-
der of Babylon : 5 identical symbols earn 25 victory points and 6 identi-
cal symbols earn 36 victory points.
Example : Alexandria has built 6 scientific structures with the following
symbols : 3 , 2 , 1 . They score 9 points for the family of 3
(3x3), 4 points for its (2x2) and finally 1 for the (1x1), for a total
of 14 victory points.
Sets of 3 different symbols
For each group of 3 different symbols, each
player scores 7 victory points.
Example : Continuing the above example, Alexandria has built 6 scien-
tific structures but only has a single group of 3 different symbols, they
score 7 extra points for a total of 21 victory points.
If Alexandria had built an extra structure with the symbol, they
would’ve scored : (9 + 4 + 4) + (7 + 7) = 31 victory points.
6. Commercial Structures
Some commercial structures from Age III grant victory points.
Example : Alexandria has built the Chamber of Commerce. This structure
is worth 2 victory points for each gray card present in their City. Alexan-
dria has played two gray cards : 4 victory points.
7. Guilds
Each Guild is worth a number of victory points depending on the configu-
ration of the player’s city and/or that of the two neighboring cities (see
description of the structures).
• Block your opponents : to win at 7 Wonders, you must keep an eye
on your two neighboring cities to analyze their strategy. Try to block
them by using the cards which would give them an advantage. You can
use them to build your Wonder stages or by discarding them when
you need coins.
• Strategies : multiple strategies can lead to victory : specialize in struc-
tures of a single color or collect the different types of structures,
wage war or neglect your military, producing goods in abundance or
rely on commerce...
• The march of progress : if you build scientific structures, try to make
groups of different symbols, as they tend to earn more points.
· 6 ·

Free city
Free city card
Free City’s deck
Ludovic’s city
Pierô’s city
Border card
Border card
At the end of the turn, Ludovic
put his cards here
Card played by Pierô for
his city
Card played by Ludovic
for his city
Card played by
Ludovic for the
Free city
At the end of the turn, Pierô
put his cards here
Border card
Free city card
“Expert” variant for 2 players
The following rule adjustments allow play with 2 players.
In addition to the standard game material, you’ll need the two specific
cards found in the box.
Be careful : we suggest you play a few games with 3-7 players
before trying the game in its 2-player variant !
Game set-up
The players use the same cards as in the 3-player configuration (3+ cards only).
Each player is given a board, and then a third board is placed beside them.
This board will be called the Free city in the rest of this variant.
The Border card is placed between the two players.
Each player is given a 7-card hand and the remaining 7 cards make a draw
pile, placed face down, to the right of the Border card.
The player to the left of the Free city adds the Free city card to his or her hand.
The players and the Free city each get 3 coins from the bank to start the game.
Game Overview
The game proceeds the same way as it would with 3 to 7 players.
The difference is in the management of the Free city : the players will play,
in turn and in addition to their own card, a card for it.
1. Choose a Card
The player who holds the Free city card in his or her hand takes the first
card of the draw pile and adds it to their hand.
That player will then pick two cards from his or her hand, first one for their
own city and then one for the Free City, while his or her opponent picks
a card for themselves. Each player then places their remaining cards on
their own side of the Border card.
Each player then places the remaining cards on their side of the Border card.
Clarification :
The Free City cannot discard a card to get 3 coins unless it cannot play
a card. The player must then choose, when possible, a card which can
be played by the Free City (structure construction or wonder building
stage). The choice of this card is made AFTER choosing the card to be
played for his or her own city.
2. Action
The player holding the Free city card plays the Free city’s card followed by
his or her own while their opponent performs their own action.
Rules for the Free city :
• The Free City can buy resources from its two neighboring cities accor-
ding to the normal commerce rules. When a resource is available in
both neighboring cities, the player controlling the Free City gets to pick
which city to buy the resource from (no matter what its cost may be).
• If the card chosen for the Free city can benefit from a free construc-
tion (chain), this free construction MUST be performed.
Note : during the sixth turn of the age, there is only one card remaining
in the Free city’s draw pile. This last card is discarded at the same time as
the seventh and last card of the players.
3. Move on to the next hand
Once all three cards are played, the players take the stack of cards on the
other side of the border. During the next turn, it’s the other player who’ll
play for the Free city, and so on until the end of the game.
Example : Ludwig and Peter start a game. They each get a hand of 7
cards and place a draw pile made up of the 7 remaining cards 7 to the
right of the Border card. Ludwig, to the right of the Free city, adds to his
hand the Free city card. On the first turn of the game, Peter chooses one
card from his hand to play and Ludwig takes the first card of the Free
city draw pile and adds it to his hand. He then chooses one card for the
Free city and one for his own City. The players reveal their chosen cards,
starting with the Free city and play them. Then they take the stack of
cards on the other side of the Border card, so Peter winds up with the
Free city card for the second turn of the game. It’s therefore up to him
to draw a card and play for both his City and the neutral City...
End of an age
The player who begins with the Free city card changes each age :
• Age I : the card is held by the player to the left of the Free city.
• Age II : the card is held by the player to the right of the Free city.
• Age III : the card is held by the player to the left of the Free city.
The rules for Conflict resolution remain unchanged.
End of the Game
The player who has the most victory points wins the game.
In case of a tie, the player with the most coins in his or her treasury wins
the game.
· 7 ·

A
The Colossus of Rhodes
the player adds 2 Shields to their total in each conflict resolution.
The Lighthouse of Alexandria
the player gains a resource of their choice from the 4 Raw material types
[Stone, Clay, Wood, Ore] every turn.
Clarification : this resource cannot be sold through commerce.
The Temple of Artemis in Ephesus
the player takes 9 coins from the bank and adds them to their treasury.
Clarification : the 9 coins are taken from the bank only once, immediately
after this stage has been built.
The Hanging Gardens of Babylon
at the end of the game, the player gains an extra scientific symbol of
their choice.Clarification : the choice of symbol is made at the end of the game, when
counting victory points, and not when this stage of the Wonder is built.
The Statue of Zeus in Olympia
the player can, once per Age, build a structure of their choice for free.
Clarification : the player can place the card used as a construction marker
above the Wonder board and replace it underneath when this ability has
been used.
The Mausoleum of Halicarnassus
the player can look through all of the cards discarded since the beginning
of the game (those discarded for coins as well as those discarded at the
end of an age), pick one, and build it for free.
Clarification : this special ability takes place at the end of the turn in which
this stage is built. If players discard cards this turn (as in the case of the 6th
turn of an age), the player can also choose from among them.
The Pyramids of Giza
the Pyramids don’t have a special ability, their second stage is worth 5
victory points.
Description of the Wonders
The 7 boards representing the Cities and their Wonders are double-sided (A and B) to allow for some variety in your games.
Side [A]
The A sides of the Wonders are organized according to the same principle :
• the first stage is worth 3 victory points.
• the third stage is worth 7 victory points.
• the second stage gives a special effect specific to the Wonder :
Clarification: the resources produced by the boards are not consi-
dered to be cards.
· 8 ·

B Face [B]
The B sides of the Wonders are slightly more complex. Nevertheless, both sides remain balanced and can be used in the same game.
The Pyramids of Giza
the Pyramids are built in 4 stages, each worth victory points (3,5,5,7) for
a total of 20 points.
The Colossus of Rhodes
The Colossus is built in 2 stages :
• the first stage is worth 1 Shield, 3 coins and 3 victory points.
• the second stage is worth 1 Shield, 4 coins and 4 victory points.
The Lighthouse of Alexandria
• the first stage allows the player to gain one resource of their choice
from among the 4 raw materials [Stone, Clay, Wood, Ore] each turn.
• the second stage allows the player to gain one manufactured good
of their choice chosen from among the 3 types [Glass, Textile, Papy-
rus] each turn.
• the third stage is worth 7 victory points.
Clarification : these resources cannot be bought by neighboring cities.
The Temple of Artemis in Ephesus
• the first stage is worth 4 coins and 2 victory points.
• the second stage is worth 4 coins and 3 victory points.
• the third stage is worth 4 coins and 5 victory points.
Clarification : the coins are taken from the bank only once, immediately
after the stage has been built.
The Hanging Gardens of Babylon
• the first stage is worth 3 victory points.
• the second stage gives the player the option of playing their seventh
Age card instead of discarding it. This card can be played by paying
its costs, discarded to earn 3 coins or used in the building of the third
phase of the Wonder.
• the third stage grants the player a scientific symbol of their choice.Clarification :
- during the sixth turn, the player can therefore play both cards they have
in hand. If the second stage of the Wonder is not built, the Babylon player
can then build it on their sixth turn and then play the seventh card ins-
tead of discarding it.
- the choice of the symbol is made at the end of the game and not on the
turn in which the stage of the Wonder is built.
The Statue of Zeus in Olympia
• the first stage allows the player to purchase raw materials [Stone,
Clay, Wood, Ore] from his or her two neighboring cities for the price
of one coin instead of two.
• the second stage is worth 5 victory points.
• the third stage allows the player to “copy” a Guild (purple card) of
their choice built by one of their two neighboring cities.
Clarifications :
- the first stage is equivalent to the two Trading Posts, Eastern or Western
(yellow cards) : their effect is not cumulative, but the construction of either
the Eastern or Western Trading Posts remains possible...
- for the third stage, the choice of the Guild is made at the end of the game,
when counting points. The player totals the victory points as if they had
built that Guild.
- Copying a Guild has no effect on the city of the copied Guild’s owner.
The Mausoleum of Halicarnassus
• the first stage is worth 2 victory points and the player can look at
all of the cards discarded since the beginning of the game and build
one for free.
• the second stage is worth 1 victory point and the player can look at
all of the cards discarded since the beginning of the game and build
one for free.
• when they build the third stage, the player can look at all of the cards
discarded since the beginning of the game and build one for free.
Clarification : this special action is taken at the end of the turn in which the
stage is built. If players discard cards on that turn (for example, during the
6th turn of an age), the player can also choose from among those cards.
· 9 ·

Credits
AUTHOR :
Antoine Bauza
DEVELOPMENT : “The Sombrero-wearing Belgians” aka
Cédrick Caumont & Thomas Provoost
ART :
Miguel Coimbra
LAYOUT :
Alexis -Halicarnassius 70- Vanmeerbeeck
This game is dedicated to the memory of Vincent Moirin.
Whom left us before the release of this game, he has brought his feelings to this
game during many testings.
PLAYTESTERS :
Mikaël Bach, Françoise Sengissen, Matthieu Houssais, Michaël Ber-
trand, Mathias Guillaud, Dominique Figuet, Jenny Godard, Maïa Houssais, Florian
Grenier, Bruno Goube, Julie Politano, Bruno Cathala, Ludovic Maublanc, Milou,
Fred, Cyberfab, Mimi, Thomas Cauet, Yves Phaneuf, the members of the « Jeux
en Société » club of Grenoble, the members of the Dragons Nocturnes playnight
meetings, the Belgo-Ludiques 2010 players, the participants of the « Offs » of the
Cannes FIJ, the players from the Gathering of Friends 2010, the players from the
ludopathique meetups, the play-sitors of the Toulouse festival.
CORRECTIONS :
Didier Aldebert, Bruno Goube
TRANSLATION :
Eric Harlaux
REVISION :
Eric Franklin, Konstantinos Theodorakakos
The author would like to thank Bruno Cathala for giving him ideas on the 2 player rules.
The sombrero-wearing belgians would like to thank Geoff -Imma break your face-
Picard, Alexis -bocce- Desplats, Philippe Mouret, John -I cut prototypes- Berny, A
la guerre who’ll recognize himself as well as his Cyborg, the members of the Liège
Objectifs-Jeux Club, 20.100, The organizers of the Feu.F.L.AN, Stefan Glaubitz.
7 WONDERS is a game of REPOS PRODUCTION.
Tél.
+ 32 (0) 477 254 518 • 7, Rue Lambert Vandervelde • 1170 Bruxelles -
Belgique • www.rprod.com
© REPOS PRODUCTION 2012. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
This material may only be used for private entertainment.
WORKERS GUILD
TRADERS GUILD
CRAFTSMENS GUILD
PHILOSOPHERS GUILD
SPIES GUILD
STRATEGISTS GUILD
SCIENTISTS GUILD
SHIPOWNERS GUILD
MAGISTRATES GUILD
BUILDERS GUILD
1
1 1 1
1
1
1
2
1
/ /
1
LUMBER YARD
3+ 4+
CLAY POOL
3+ 5+
STONE PIT
3+ 5+
ORE VEIN
3+ 4+
TREE FARM
6+
EXCAVATION
4+
CLAY PIT
3+
TIMBER YARD
3+
FOREST CAVE
5+
MINE
6+
SAWMILL
3+ 4+
BRICKYARD
3+ 4+
QUARRY
3+ 4+
FOUNDRY
3+ 4+
LOOM
3+ 6+
PRESS
3+ 6+
GLASSWORKS
3+ 6+
LOOM
3+ 5+
PRESS
3+ 5+
GLASSWORKS
3+ 5+
AGE I AGE II AGE III
PALACE
3+ 7+ 8
Cards list and chainsCard’s name
EffectCards frequency by
the number of players.
Construction’s cost
1
· 10 ·

APOTHECARY
3+ 5+
WORKSHOP
3+ 7+
SCRIPTORIUM
3+ 4+
DISPENSARY
3+ 4+
LABORATORY
3+ 5+
LIBRARY
3+ 6+
SCHOOL
3+ 7+
LODGE
3+ 6+
OBSERVATORY
3+ 7+
UNIVERSITY
3+ 4+
ACADEMY
3+ 7+
STUDY
3+ 5+
STABLES
3+ 5+
ARCHERY RANGE
3+ 6+
COURTHOUSE 43+ 5+
SENATE 63+ 5+
SIEGE WORKSHOP
3+ 5+
ARENA
3 1
3+ 5+ 7+
TAVERN
4+ 5+ 7+
EAST TRADING POST
WEST TRADING POST
MARKETPLACE CARAVANSERY
VINEYARD
BAZAR
FORUM HAVEN
LIGHTHOUSE
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
3+ 7+
3+ 6+ 7+ 3+ 4+
3+ 6+3+ 5+ 6+
3+ 6+
4+ 7+
3+ 7+
4+ 6+
3+ 6+
/ /
/ / /
1
2
1 1
1 1
2 2
PAWNSHOP
BATHS AQUEDUCT
ALTAR
THEATER
TEMPLE
STATUE
TOWN HALL
GARDENS
PALACE
PANTHEON
3+ 6+
3+ 5+ 6+
3+ 4+
3+ 7+
3+ 7+
3+ 6+
3+ 7+
4+ 7+
3+ 7+
3+ 5+
3+ 6+
3
3
2
2
5
3
4
6
5
7
8
WALLS
TRAINING GROUND
STOCKADE
BARRACKS
GUARD TOWER
CIRCUS
FORTIFICATIONS
ARSENAL
3+ 7+
3+ 7+
4+ 5+ 6+
3+ 4+ 7+
3+ 7+
4+ 6+ 7+
3+ 5+
3+ 4+
AGE I AGE IAGE II AGE IIAGE III AGE III
1
1
1
· 11 ·

1
2
3 1
1 1
2 2
1 1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1 1 1
1
1
1
Description of the symbols
Age I cards
the card produces the pictured raw material.
Clay Ore Stone Wood
the card produces one of the two pictured raw resources
each turn.Clarification : the player can use one OR the other resource to build a struc-
ture (or a wonder phase) but NOT both in a given turn. Neighboring players
may purchase either, regardless of what the owner chooses to produce.
the card produces the pictured manufactured goods.
Glass Loom Papyrus
the card is worth the number of victory points pictured.
the card grants 1 Shield.
the card comes into account when counting victory points.
the card comes into account when counting victory points.
the card comes into account when counting victory points.
the card is worth the amount of coins pictured, the coins are taken
from the bank only once, when the card is played.
starting on the turn following the one in which this
building was constructed, the player purchases raw
materials from the neighboring city indicated by
the arrow for 1 coin instead of 2.
from the turn following the one in which this
structure was built, the player pays the manu-
factured goods bought from his or her neighbors
1 coin instead of 2.Clarification for the Eastern Trading Post, the Western Trading Post and
the Marketplace : arrows show to which neighboring city or cities to which
the discount applies.
Boards Once per age, a player can construct a building from his or her
hand for free.
The player can play the last card of each age instead of discar-
ding it. This card can be played by paying its cost, discarded to
gain 3 coins or used in the construction of his or her Wonder.
The player can look at all cards discarded since the begin-
ning of the game, pick one and build it for free.
The player can, at the end of the game, “copy” a
Guild of his or her choice (purple card), built by one
of his or her two neighboring cities.
Age II cards
the card produces two units of the pictured raw material.
the card grants 2 Shields.
the card is worth 1 coin per brown card built in the
player’s city AND in the two neighboring cities.
Clarification : The brown cards built in the neighboring
cities on the same turn as the Vineyard are counted.
the card is worth 2 coins per gray card built in the
player’s city AND in the two neighboring cities.
Clarification : The gray cards built in neighboring
cities on the same turn as the Bazaar are counted.
each turn, the card produces a unit of one of the
four raw materials pictured, of the player’s choice.
Clarification : these resources cannot be bought
by neighboring cities.
the card produces one unit of one of the three
manufactured goods pictured of the player’s choice.
Clarification : these resources cannot be bought
be neighboring cities.
Age III cards
the card grants 3 Shields.
the card gives 3 coins per Wonder stage constructed in its
home city at the time it comes into play (3, 6, 9 or 12 coins).
At the end of the game, the card is worth 1 victory point
per Wonder stage built in its home city (1, 2, 3 or 4 points).
the card gives 1 coin per brown card present in a player’s city
when it is played. At the end of the game, the card is worth 1
victory point for each brown card present in the player’s city.
the card gives 2 coins for each gray card present in the player’s
city when it comes into play. At the end of the game, the card
is worth 2 victory points for each gray card present in the
player’s city.
the card gives 1 coin per yellow card in the player’s city, itself
included, when it is played. At the end of the game, the card
is worth 1 victory point for each yellow card present in a
player’s city.
Clarification for the Arena, the Port, the Chamber of Commerce and the
Lighthouse : the coins are taken only once, when the structure is built. The
victory points are counted at the end of the game, according to the cards
and Wonder phases built at that point.
Guilds
Most Guilds are worth victory points based on buildings built by your
neighbors.
Note : the two arrows, on both sides of the pictured card, means that
the cards from the neighboring cities are counted, but not those of the
player with this card.
Spies Guild : 1 victory point for each red card
present in both neighboring cities.
Magistrates Guild : 1 victory point for each
blue card present in the neighboring cities.
Workers Guild : 1 victory point for each brown
card present in the neighboring cities.
Craftmans Guild : 2 victory points for each
gray card present in the neighboring cities.
Traders Guild : 1 victory point for each yellow
card in the neighboring cities.
Philosophers Guild : 1 victory point for each
green card present in the neighboring cities.
The other Guilds earn victory points according to specific rules.
Builders Guild : 1 victory point for each Won-
der stage built in the neighboring cities AND
in your own city.
Shipowners Guild : 1 victory point for each brown,
gray and purple card in your city.
Clarification : the Shipowners Guild counts towards
this total.
Strategists Guild : 1 victory point for each defeat
token present in the neighboring cities.
Scientists Guild : the player gains an extra
scientific symbol of his or her choice.
Clarification : the choice of the symbol is made
at the end of the game and not when the
Guild is built.
Clarification: Ressources produced by boards are NOT considered as cards
(Vineyard, Bazar, Guilds, ...).
1
· 12 ·