A game created by Thierry Denoual. © 2007
Game created by Thierry Denoual. © 2011.
All rights reserved for all countries.
Rules of the Game
Contents:
200 Question Cards
24 Answer Cards
Illustrated Rules

IntRoDUCtIon:
Welcome to the hilarious and surprising world
of Analyze Me!
Look into the minds and hearts of your friends.
Make educated guesses about how they would
react in certain situations and about their likes
and dislikes.
What would they do if they found a hair in
their Caesar salad? If you are an astute judge
of character, you have a chance to be crowned
“Best Shrink Apprentice!”
objeCt of the game:
Be the first player to win one Question Card
from each category.
PlayIng the game:
Place the game box in the middle of the table.
Arrange the question cards in 4 stacks,
corresponding to each category, and place each
stack in one of the individual slots of the box.
Each player receives 3 Answer Cards (A,B,C).
The player who has the nicest smile kicks off
the game as the “Shrink Apprentice” for the first
round.

The Shrink Apprentice chooses a Question Card
from 1 of the following 4 categories:
The Shrink Apprentice reads the question and
the 3 possible answers out loud.
The other players, the “Patients,” decide
which of the 3 choices best corresponds to their
personalities.
note: Not every question will apply to your
actual life circumstances. When answering such
a question, consider it hypothetical: What
would you do if you were in that situation?
If more than one answer applies, choose the
response that is the closest in spirit to how you
feel.
Once they have made up their minds, each
Patient puts his/her Answer Card facedown on
the table (either A, B or C).
Any patient shuffles the cards and passes them
to the Shrink Apprentice.
The Shrink Apprentice guesses who answered
what. He/she places one Answer Card in front
of each Patient. Once all the Answer Cards are
distributed, the Patients, one by one, reveal
their actual answers.
• Play Life
• Work Life • Social Life
• Private Life

Winning a Card:
In order to win a question card, the Shrink
Apprentice must answer some or all correctly,
depending on the number of players.
3 to 5 PlayeRs: The Shrink Apprentice must
guess all answers correctly to win the Question
Card.
6 PlayeRs: The Shrink Apprentice must guess
at least 3 answers correctly to win the Question
Card.
7 to 8 PlayeRs: The Shrink Apprentice must
guess at least 4 answers correctly to win the
Question Card.
Play moves clockwise to the next player,
who then becomes the next Shrink Apprentice
and chooses a new Question Card from any
category.
If you have misjudged this time, don’t worry,
you will have more chances to get ahead!
Winning the game:
If you are the first player to win one Question
Card from each category, you are crowned
“Best Shrink Apprentice” by the Shrink Academy.