Cards Against Humanity Rules
Basic Rules House Rules
To start the game, each player draws ten White Cards. Cards Against Humanity is meant to be remixed. Here
are some of our favorite ways to pimp out the rules:
The person who most recently pooped begins as the
Card Czar and plays a Black Card. The Card Czar Happy Ending: When you're ready to stop playing,
reads the question or fill-in-the-blank phrase on the play the “Make a Haiku” Black Card to end the game.
Black Card out loud. This is the official ceremonial ending of a good game
of Cards Against Humanity, and this card should
Everyone else answers the question or fills in the be reserved for the end. (Note: Haikus don't need
blank by passing one White Card, face down, to the to follow the 5-7-5 form. They just have to be read
Card Czar. dramatically).
The Card Czar shuffles all of the answers and shares Rehooting the Universe: At any time, players may
each card combination with the group. For full effect, trade in an Awesome Point to return as many White
the Card Czar should usually re-read the Black Card Cards as they'd like to the deck and draw back
before presenting each answer. The Card Czar then up to ten.
picks the funniest play, and whoever submitted it i }
gets one Awesome Point. Packing Heat: For Pick 2s, all players draw an extra
card before playing the hand to open up more options.
re bp ee ora Cat Rando Cardrissian: Every round, pick one random
White Card from the pile and place it into play. This
BE — EE — card belongs to an imaginary player named Rando
Cardrissian, and if he wins the game, all players
PICK (2) go home in a state of everlasting shame.
Some cards say PICK 2 on the bottom. God Is Dead: Play without a Card Czar. Each player
; picks his or her favorite card each round. The card
To answer these, each player plays two White Cards in with the most votes wins the round.
combination. Play them in the order that the Card Czar
should read them —the order matters. Survival of the Fittest: After everyone has answered
the question, players take turns eliminating one card
Ifthe Card Czar has lobster claws for hands, you can each. The last remaining card is declared the funniest.
use paperclips to secure the cards in the right order.
Serious Business: Instead of picking a favorite card
l each round, the Card Czar ranks the top three in order.
Gambling The best card gets 3 Awesome Points, the second-
best gets 2, and the third gets 1. Keep a running tally
If a Black Card is played and you have more than one of the score, and at the end of the game, the winner is
White Card that you think could win, you can bet one declared the funniest, mathematically speaking.
of your Awesome Points to play an additional
White Card. Never Have | Ever: At any time, players may discard
cards that they don’t understand, but they must
If you win, you keep your point. If you lose, whoever confess their ignorance to the group and suffer the
‘won the round gets the point you wagered. resulting humiliation.
[2]
