[Page 1]
Klaus Teuber
Game RulesGame Rules
&& almanacalmanac

[Page 2]
22
Game Rules
Except where noted below, Catan: Cities & Knights (aka “Cities
& Knights”) uses all the rules from Catan® (aka “The Settlers of
Catan”). The additional rules include:
• a revised turn order;
• rules for placing and using knights;
• rules for city development and progress cards; and
• rules for the attacking barbarians!
These 12-page rules (pages 2-13) contain all the important
information that you need to play! Look for specific information
about the individual progress cards in the “Almanac,” which
follows after these rules (see pages 14-18).
Game Components
• 1 “barbarian tile” with movement spaces for
the barbarian ship
• 36 commodity cards, including:
– 12 paper (from forest)
– 12 cloth (from pasture)
– 12 coin (from mountains)
• 54 progress cards:
– 18 trade progress cards (yellow flag on the back)
– 18 politics progress cards (blue flag on the back)
– 18 science progress cards (green flag on the back)
• 6 “Defender of Catan” victory point (VP) cards
• 4 development flip-charts (“city calendars”)
• wooden playing pieces in 4 colors:
– 12 city walls (square wooden tokens; 3 of each color)
– 24 knights (round wooden tokens; 6 of each color)
• 3 metropolis pieces (yellow wooden city gate pieces)
• 3 metropolis tokens (die cut cardboard)
• 2 sheets of knight labels
• 1 barbarian ship (wooden ship piece)
• 1 merchant (wooden cone piece)
• 1 Game Rules & Almanac booklet
• 1 game overview (on back of this booklet)
• 1 event die (with 3 ships and 3 city gate symbols)
What You need From Your Catan Game
To play Cities & Knights you will
need most of the components
from a copy of Catan. Set aside
the following Catan pieces, as you
won’t need them:
• The development card deck;
• The “Largest Army” card; and
• The building costs cards.
See Illustrations A and B.
Cities & Knights pieces replace
these components. Use all of the
remaining pieces from Catan.
Dear Knights of Catan,
This booklet contains all of the guidelines you need to play Catan: Cities & Knights®. We recommend that you first read
the “Game Overview” on the back of these rules. Then read the “Game Rules” to familiarize yourself with the basic changes
in this expansion. Finally, refer to the “Almanac” when special questions arise during play. Also note that the Almanac
includes instructions on how to label the game parts.
You can find further information online at:
catan.com klausteuber.com catanstudio.comThe New World is Winter and We create wonders knowing onlee truth transcends decay
A general note on Catan rules. This is the 5th English-
language edition of Catan (aka Settlers of Catan). Over the
years, the rules have been clarified, refined, and occasionally
updated. As of January 1, 2015, all of the rules in this version of
Catan take precedence over any previously-published rules.
Illustration A
laRGest aRmy
2 Victory Points!
The first player to play 3 Knight cards
gets this card. Another player who plays
more Knight cards takes this card.
Set aside all of these
Catan pieces before
you start—you don’t
need them in C&K.

[Page 3]
33
You use the development flip-charts to track the city
improvements that you purchase. Each page of the flip-chart
shows the building costs of each piece. Each section also shows
the cost of the next level of improvement. When you buy a
city improvement, you flip the page section matching the
improvement you purchased.
Each page section depicts an illustration of the improvements
that you’ve purchased, and a number of red dice. These red
dice tell you if you acquire progress cards. The third level of
improvement in each category describes the special ability
you’ve just earned for that development track.
City Walls
City walls are low, square wooden
blocks that you can place beneath your
cities. To build a city wall, you pay 2
brick resources to the bank. Each city wall you have on the board
increases the maximum number of cards you can safely hold in
your hand when a “7” is rolled on the production dice. Each city
wall adds 2 cards to your “safe” hand limit.
You may only build a city wall under a city. You can not
place a city wall under a settlement. If one of your cities with
a city wall is reduced to a settlement (by the barbarians), you
must also remove that city wall from the board. Also, you may
only build 1 city wall under a given city, and you can have a
maximum of 3 city walls on the board at any given time.
settinG up the island oF Catan
Normally, you play Cities & Knights on a random, variable
game board, just like the Catan base game. However, we
recommend that you use the prepared board set-up shown
in Illustration D (see page 4), it’s ideal for your first game of
Cities & Knights. This layout provides a balanced production of
resources (most especially grain) and commodities that may
prove scarce during the game.
Hexagon Tiles and the Barbarian Tile
After constructing the frame, place the hexagonal tiles (hexes)
within the frame as shown in the Game Overview.
If you are constructing a random
board, place the land hexes in the
center of the framed area as you
would normally.
Next, place the “barbarian tile”
as noted. The barbarian ship will
move along this track toward
Catan. Again, if using a random
board, shuffle the harbor tokens
and place them normally.
neW Game pieCes
Progress Cards
In Cities & Knights, these
three card decks replace the
development card deck from
Catan.
Knights
Before you play Cities & Knights for the first time, you need to
label all 24 knight tokens (the round wooden “disks”). There are
6 tokens of each color.
There are 6 knights per player (color):
• 2 basic knights
(1 ring, open helmet)
• 2 strong knights
(2 rings, full helmet)
• 2 mighty knights (3 rings,
great-helm with crest)
You need to attach 2 labels to
each knight token. Label each
tokes as shown in illustration
C. The front side of each token
gets the “inactive” symbol
(a black & white image), the
reverse side of each token gets
the “active” symbol (a full-
color head).
Important: Make sure to affix the correct stickers to each token.
The “inactive” front and “active” back of each token must be
a knight of matching level. For example, inactive basic on the
front, active basic on the back, etc.
Development Flip-chart
Before playing your first game, you must separate the spiral-
bound pages of the development flip-charts. Each page of the
flip-charts is perforated, so there are 3 parts to each page. Gently
pull the sections of each page apart. When finished, you should
have 5 pages, each divided into 3 separate sections.
Illustration B
Illustration C
KniGhts
Inactive Active

[Page 4]
44
settinG up the Game
Sort the resource cards into 5 stacks, 1 for each resource. Place
them face-up near the island.
Sort the new commodity cards into 3 stacks, one for each
commodity. Place them face-up by the resource cards.
Divide the progress cards into 3 stacks by the flag color on the
back of each card (green, blue, and yellow). Shuffle each stack
separately and place them face down near the island.
Place the 3 metropolises, the merchant cone, the 3 dice
(1 yellow, 1 red, and 1 event die), and the “Longest Road” card
near the island.
Place the black wooden ship on the “barbarian ship” space on
the Barbarian Tile. The barbarian ship moves along this track on
its way to Catan.
Place the robber on the desert hex.
Each player selects a color and takes all of the pieces of that
color. Each player receives:
• 5 settlements, 4 cities, and 15 roads
(all from the Catan base game);
• 6 knights (2 each of basic, strong, and mighty knights);
• 3 city walls; and
• 1 development flip-chart.
set-up phase
Once you’ve constructed the board and arranged the pieces,
begin the set-up phase. Now the players place their initial
settlements, cities, and roads. Each player rolls the dice; the
player with the highest roll begins.
Starting with the first player and continuing clockwise around
the table, each player places 1
settlement and 1 road (as in basic
Catan).
Then, the second placement
round begins with the last player
to place a settlement. It continues
counterclockwise around the
table (so the first player to place
a settlement will be the last to
place). Each player now places 1
city and 1 road, following all of
the normal rules for placement
described in the Catan base game
(i.e., no city may be placed fewer
than 2 spaces away from all
settlements, etc.).
You receive your first
resources immediately after you
place your city. You get 1 resource
for each terrain that your city is
adjacent to.
Place your development flip-
chart in front of you with the
first page showing (indicating
that you have not built any city
improvements).
55••••••••
22
••
1010••••••
1010••••••
88••••••••••
1212
••99••••••••
33••••
66••••••••••
55••••••••
1111••••
1111••••
33••••
66••••••••••
99••••••••
44••••••
44••••••
88••••••••••
Illustration D
Starting Map
for Beginners
Beginners should set up
the game according to
the example shown here.
Place the barbarian tile
beside the board.
Place the barbarian
ship here.

[Page 5]
55
turn overvieW
The player who placed the last city takes the first turn;
afterwards, in clockwise direction, one by one the other players
take their turns. On your turn, the following actions are
performed, in the order listed:
• You roll all 3 dice.
• The results of the event (symbol) die are resolved.
• Progress cards may be drawn (depending on the result of
the event die).
• All players produce the resources indicated by the red and
yellow dice.
• All players produce the commodities indicated by the red
and yellow dice.
• You may do any or all of the following in any order:
– Trade resources and/or commodities with the bank and/
or other players.
– Build roads, settlements, cities, knights, city walls, and/
or city improvements.
– Activate, promote, and/or perform actions with your
knights.
– Play any number of progress cards.
Note: The “Alchemist” progress card can only be played before
the dice are rolled. It is the only progress card that can be used
before the dice are rolled and the results resolved.
speCiFiC aCtions
Dice Rolls
Each player begins their turn by rolling
all 3 of the dice. The result of the dice will
determine not only which terrain hexes
produce resources and commodities, but also what actions the
barbarians will take, and if any progress cards are drawn. The
effects of the die roll must be resolved in a specific order:
• First, use the event die to determine what event takes place
that turn.
• If the ship symbol is showing, then move the
barbarian ship 1 space closer to the island of
Catan. The ship follows the track on the
Barbarian Tile. The ship begins its journey on the
space illustrated with the ship. The barbarians
attack when the ship reaches the last space. (See “Attack
of the Barbarians” on page 11.)
• If one of the three city gate symbols (blue, green, or
yellow) is showing, then all players may be
eligible to draw a progress card. To be eligible,
a player must be able to match the number
rolled on the red die with one of the red die icons
showing on their flip-chart in the section that matches the
color of the city gate rolled on the symbol die
(see example).
Example: See Illustration
F. The event die shows a
yellow gate, and the red
die shows the number
“1.” All those players
who have purchased at
least the first level yellow
city improvement (the
market) are eligible to
draw a yellow progress
card.
Beginning with the player whose turn it is, and continuing
clockwise, each eligible player draws the topmost card from
the progress card stack that matches the color of the city
gate showing on the event die. Keep your progress cards
secret from your opponents until you play them. You may
never have more than 4 progress cards in your hand. See
“Progress Cards” on page 9.
• Add the red and the yellow dice together to determine
which hexes produce resources and commodities for
all players. All hexes whose number matches this sum
produces 1 of the appropriate resources for each
settlement adjacent to it. Production for a city bordering
a producing hex depends on the type of terrain rolled. See
Illustration J.
As in Catan base game, any hex that is occupied by the robber
does not produce any resources or
commodities. Also, if a “7” is rolled
on the dice, no hexes produce:
instead, the player who rolled the
“7” must move the robber and
may be able to steal 1 card from
any opponent whose settlement or
city is adjacent to the robber. The
robber cannot be moved until after
the barbarians reach the island of
Catan for the first time. Until the
first barbarian attack, if you roll
a “7”, all players must check if
they are holding too many cards
as usual; however, you do not
move the robber from the desert
and you do not steal a card from
another player. Further, you are
not allowed to move the robber by
playing of any progress cards (like
the Bishop) or knight actions until
after the first barbarian attack.
Illustration F
© 2015 Catan GmbH
1 Wool + 1 Cloth
© 2015 Catan GmbH
1 Lumber + 1 Paper
© 2015 Catan GmbH
1 Ore + 1 Coin
© 2015 Catan GmbH
© 2015 Catan GmbH
2 Brick
© 2015 Catan GmbH
© 2015 Catan GmbH
2 Grain
A City on a: Produces
Illustration G
Cities Produce
Resource &
Commodity Cards

[Page 6]
66
Trading and Building
In Cities & Knights, you are allowed to build and trade any
number of times and in any order. You do not need to finish all
of your trading before you begin your building. All of the rules
from Catan apply to trades made in Cities & Knights (with the
addition of the commodity cards). Progress cards may never be
traded at any time.
All of the basic rules for building remain in effect. The cost
of roads, settlements, and cities remain unchanged. There are,
however, 2 new items that you may elect to build during your
turn. Also, you may no longer purchase development cards with
resources.
The 2 new items are city walls and knights.
City Walls
To build a city wall, you must pay two brick resources to the
bank. Place the city wall (the square wooden piece) under any
city you own on the board. There are three restrictions on the
placement of city walls:
a. You may only build city walls under cities—never
under settlements.
b. You may only build one city wall under each city.
c. You may never have more than 3 city walls at one time.
Each city wall you control increases the maximum number of
cards you safely hold in your hand when a “7” is rolled on the
production dice. Each city wall adds 2 cards to this limit.
Example: If you have 2 cities, each with a city wall, you may
safely hold up to 11 cards in your hand without having to
discard half of them when a “7” is rolled.
If the barbarians pillage your city (i.e., reduce it to a
settlement), the city wall is also destroyed. You must remove the
city wall from the board.
Knights
Knights are represented
by the round wooden tokens.
Each knight token is labeled
on both sides. One side—
showing the symbol of a
knight’s helmet in black
and white—is the inactive
side. An inactive knight may
not perform any actions.
The other side of the token,
which depicts the helmet
in color, is the active side.
The type of helmet and the
number of rings indicate the
strength of the knight.
Reminder: See Illustration H. The open-face helmet and single
ring denotes a “basic knight.” The full helmet surrounded by
a pair of rings indicates a “strong knight.” The great-helm
adorned with the glowing sun and trio of rings represents a
“mighty knight.”
If you wish to “hire” a knight, you must pay one wool and one
ore to the bank. This allows you to take a basic knight (open
helmet/one ring) and place it on the board. Newly placed knights
are always placed with the inactive side up. You may place your
knight on any unoccupied intersection connected to your roads.
There are 2 special purchases you can make once you have a
knight:
Activating a Knight
In order for a knight to take an action, it must first be
activated. To activate a knight, you must pay one grain to the
bank. Then you may turn the knight token over to the active
side, which depicts the helmet in color. The strength of the
knight does not affect the cost to activate it. It costs only one
grain, regardless of whether it is a basic knight, or a mighty
knight. A knight may be activated on the same turn it was built;
however, the knight may not perform an action on that same
turn.
Promoting a Knight
You can increase the strength and effectiveness of your knights
by paying additional resources. The cost to promote a basic
knight to a strong knight or a strong knight to a mighty knight
is one wool and one ore. When you promote a knight, return the
old knight token (which may be repurchased later) and replace
it with a token showing the next higher strength level. The new,
stronger knight must be placed in the same location as the
knight you have promoted. The status of the knight, active or
inactive, is not changed when you promote the knight. You may
promote a knight on the same turn that it was originally built,
or on any later turn. A knight may only be promoted once per
turn. You may only promote a strong knight to a mighty knight
after you have purchased the third level of the politics (blue) city
improvement (the “Fortress”).
Playing Progress Cards
During your turn, after you have rolled the dice, you may play
any number of progress cards in any order. You may play them
between other actions taken during your turn. When you play a
progress card, resolve all of its effects, then place it, face down,
under the progress card stack of the matching color.
For more information about progress cards, see “Progress
Cards” on page 9 or consult the Cities & Knights Almanac.
Illustration H
BasiC KniGht
Value = 1
stronG KniGht
Value = 2
miGhtY KniGht
Value = 3

[Page 7]
77
Commodities
In Cities & Knights, we’ve added 3 new, “refined” materials to
the game (see Illustration I). As in Catan, we refer to the 5 basic
materials (lumber, wool, grain, brick, and ore) as “resources.”
The 3 new materials (cloth, coin, and paper) are called
“commodities.” In many ways, the commodities are treated the
same as resources, but there are also some ways in which they
differ. Here are all of the details about commodities:
• Commodities are produced only by cities, and only in forest,
pasture, and mountains.
• Commodities, when produced, are added to your hand of
resource cards. They count toward the robber or limit when
a “7” is rolled. They may be stolen by the robber, or lost as
a discard.
• The borders on commodity cards are intertwined with
ribbons that match the color of the commodity (gold
for cloth, green for paper, and gray for coin). The borders
on the resource cards all are plain knot work. Both
commodity cards and resource cards have the same card
backs (i.e., a map).
• Commodities may be traded in all the same ways as
resources. You may trade them freely with other players.
You may exchange 4 of the same commodity for 1 of any
resource or commodity you choose. If you have a settlement
or a city on a 3:1 harbor, you may trade 3 of any commodity
for 1 of any resource or commodity of your choice. You
may also trade 4 of any resource for 1 of any commodity
you choose (3:1 at a harbor; 2:1 if you have the matching
special harbor).
• You need commodities to acquire city improvements.
• Some progress cards specifically mention “resources” or
“commodities.” These cards can only affect the type of
material they specifically mention.
CitY improvements
One of your most important considerations as a prince
of Catan is the continued improvement of your cities. This
improvement is made possible through the use of commodity
cards. You are able to improve your cities in three areas of
development: trade (yellow); politics (blue); and science (green).
You may purchase improvements in all 3 areas even if you own
only 1 city.
Your city improvements are tracked with your development
flip-chart. Your flip-chart is divided into 3 separate parts,
1 for each of the 3 areas of development. Each section has
5 pages, which correspond to the 5 levels of improvement
you can acquire in each area. At the beginning of the game,
open page 1 of your flip-chart; the page indicates that you have
no improvements.
The various improvements are represented by important
buildings that can be constructed in your cities, such as a
market, a cathedral, or a library. The cost of a building is shown
in the lower right corner of each flip-chart page.
Example: See Illustration J. The market costs 1 cloth.
Pay 1 cloth and flip the Market section of your development
flip-chart.
The first improvement in each area always costs 1 commodity
of the matching type. The second improvement in each
area costs 2 of that commodity. The cost of each subsequent
improvement is again increased by 1.
There is one restriction on the purchase of improvements,
however. If you have no cities on the board (because the
barbarians have pillaged your last city), you may not purchase
any city improvements until you have built at least 1 city. (See
“Attack of the Barbarians” on page 11.)
Each improvement increases your chance of being eligible to
draw progress cards. Each improvement shows a picture of the
improvement. Above that picture is a row of red dice.
© 2015 Catan GmbH
© 2015 Catan GmbH
5 Resource Card Types
© 2015 Catan GmbH
© 2015 Catan GmbH
© 2015 Catan GmbH
Illustration I
3 Commodity Card Types
Illustration J

[Page 8]
88
Each die shows a number. If the event die roll shows a city gate,
you may draw a progress card of like color—but only if the
number on the red die matches one of the dice pictured on that
color’s section on your development flip-chart. A higher level of
improvement increases your chance to draw progress cards.
Example: See Illustration K. If you have built the market
improvement, it shows 2 red dice. If the event die rolls the
yellow city gate, and the red die shows a “1” or “2,” then you
may draw a yellow progress card.
In addition,
when you
build the third
improvement in
each area, you
receive a special
ability. You are
able to use this
ability for the
remainder of
the game, even
if other players
also achieve the
third level of
improvement (in which case they also get the advantage)
or if you purchase improvements beyond the third level.
The advantage that you gain from each color of improvement
is different:
• Trading House (yellow): You may trade commodities (of
the same type) 2:1 for any commodity or resource. You may
make this trade only during your turn, as if you were using
a harbor. This special trade advantage does not include
resources, only the three commodities.
• Fortress (blue): You may promote strong knights to mighty
knights after you have built the fortress. You must still pay
to promote the knights normally.
• Aqueduct (green): If, when the dice are rolled for
production, you do not receive any resources or
commodities, you may take any one resource of your choice
from the bank. You many not, however, use this ability when
a “7” is rolled.
the metropolis
Building city improvements is
also important if you want to have a
metropolis. A metropolis is represented
by a yellow city gate. These gates
are designed to fit over the wooden
city pieces.
Only 3 metropolises may be in play at any given time: one
each for trade, politics, and science.
The first player who achieves the fourth level of improvement
in any one of these 3 areas (the bank, the cathedral, or the
theater) may place one of the metropolis gates on any one of
their own cities on the board. You may take the metropolis only
if no other player already controls the fourth level improvement
of that color, for there can be only 1 metropolis for science,
trade, or politics. When you acquire a metropolis, place the
metropolis token of the appropriate color on your flip-chart to
show which area is associated with your metropolis.
A city with a metropolis is worth a total of 4 victory points!
This includes 2 points for the city and 2 additional points for
the metropolis.
You may take another player’s metropolis if you are able to
acquire the fifth level of improvement in the matching color
before they do. If another player reaches the fifth level of
improvement before the metropolis owner does, that player
may take both the metropolis piece and the colored
metropolis token.
If you have reached the fifth level of improvement in any area,
no player may take your metropolis away.
A metropolis is immune to the barbarians. It can never be
pillaged or reduced. However, the metropolis is counted when
determining the strength of the barbarian army.
You may build more than one metropolis. If you are the first
player to reach the fourth level of improvement in more than
one area (or if you reach the fifth level, thereby taking another
player’s metropolis away), you may place another metropolis
gate on one of your cities. But, you may not purchase any
improvements beyond the third level of a given color unless you
have a city where you could build a metropolis. If you do not
have such a city on the board, you must wait until you have built
at least one more city.
Illustration K
Illustration L 3 City Improvements

[Page 9]
99
proGress Cards
In Cities & Knights,
progress cards replace
the development
cards from the Catan
base game. You don’t
purchase progress
cards like development
cards; instead you draw
them with the right
combination of event die
and red die.
Acquiring Progress Cards
To be able to draw a progress card:
• You must possess at least one level of city improvement
in one or more areas of development. The first level of
improvement displays two red dice, the second level displays
three, and so on.
• The event die, when rolled on any player’s turn, must
show the city gate symbol matches the color of one of
your city improvements.
• The number on the red die, rolled at the same time,
must match one of the red dice displayed on your city
improvement matching the color of the city gate on the
symbol die.
If these three conditions are met, you may draw the top card
from the progress card stack that matches the color of the city
gate on the event die. If more than one player is allowed to
draw on the same turn, then each player draws in turn order,
beginning with the player who rolled the dice this turn.
Example: Player A rolls a “6” on the yellow die, a “3” on the
red die, and the yellow city gate on the event die. Player B
has already built a town hall (blue) and a merchant guild
(yellow). Since player B’s yellow improvement shows a red die
with “3,” showing player B may draw a yellow
progress card.
Playing Progress Cards
During your turn, you may play as many progress cards
as you wish. All progress cards may only be played after you
roll the dice (exception: the “Alchemist”). Here are some
specific rules about the play of progress cards. More detailed
instructions about each card can be found in the Cities &
Knights Almanac:
• Victory point cards must be played immediately when
drawn. The Spy may not steal them, and they cannot be
hidden in your hand. These cards do not count toward your
hand limit of 4 cards.
• You may never hold more than four progress cards in your
hand. If you draw a fifth progress card, and you cannot play
it because it is not your turn, you must discard one card (of
your choice) to the bottom of the appropriate stack.
• Progress cards may be played on the same turn they
are drawn.
• Progress cards may not be traded with other players, nor
may the robber steal them.
• When you play a progress card, place it face down under
the appropriate progress card stack. Victory points, however,
remain face-up and in play.
KniGhts
Knights are essential for achieving victory in Cities & Knights
of Catan. Without them, the barbarians will surely pillage your
cities and ruin your hopes for victory.
Like settlements, knights are placed at the intersection of three
hexes. However, knights do not have to observe the distance rule.
Knights can be placed to block construction of other players, and
they can also be used to break another player’s “longest road.”
Example: See Illustration N. A knight placed at the
intersection of two players’ roads will keep the opposing
player from
building past
the knight. The
red player has
four available
intersections for
knight placement
(marked with
arrows). If Red
places a knight at
intersection “A,”
Blue will not be
able to build past
that knight. Only Red can build a road there. If Red places her
knight at “B,” it will break Blue’s road–thus shortening it for
purposes of determining the longest road.
There are 3 strengths of knights: basic knights, strong
knights, and mighty knights. A basic knight has a strength of 1,
a strong knight has a strength of 2, and a mighty knight has a
strength of 3.
Knights serve you in 2 ways. First, they help protect Catan
from the barbarian army (See “Attack of the Barbarians” on
page 11). Second, your active knights can perform one action
during your turn. Each knight may perform any 1 of the actions
each turn. A knight may not be activated and then perform
an action on the same turn. A knight can, however, perform
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Select an opponent who has
more victory points than you.
You may examine their hand of
resource and commodity cards
and select any 2 cards, which
you may add to your hand.
MASTER MERCHANT
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may remove any open road
(a road with nothing attached at
one end). If you remove one of
your own roads, you may place
it in another location.
DIPLOMAT
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may take 2 grain cards
from the bank for each fields
hex which is adjacent to
at least one of your
cities or settlements.
IRRIGATION
Illustration M
Trade Politics Science
Illustration N
BB AA

[Page 10]
1010
an action and then be activated again later on the same turn
(although this knight cannot perform another action on the
same turn). When a knight performs an action, turn the knight
token over to the inactive side. To activate that knight again, you
must pay one grain.
Here are all of the actions that you may perform with an active
knight:
Moving a Knight
You may move an active knight to another intersection. In
order for the knight to move, you must have built roads linking
the intersection the knight is moving from to the intersection
that it is moving to.
An intersection may only be occupied by one knight at a
time. However, a moving knight may pass through any number
of intersections that are occupied by pieces of the same color
(assuming that they are all connected by roads, as above).
After you have moved the knight, it becomes inactive.
If you wish to build a settlement on an intersection occupied
by one of your knights, then you must first move the knight. If
there is no empty intersection for you to move your knight to,
then it may not move and you may not build at that intersection.
Example: See Illustration O. Red may elect to move her active
knight from intersection “A” to either intersection marked
with an arrow. The
knight may not be
moved to “B” or
“C,” as red does
not have roads
connecting these
intersections to “A.”
Displacing a Knight
On your turn, you
may move one of
your active knights to
an intersection that
is occupied by one of
your opponent’s knights. This is called “displacing” a knight. You
may only displace a knight if it is weaker than the knight that
you are moving. Thus, a strong knight can only displace a basic
knight, and a mighty knight may displace a basic or a strong
knight. A basic knight may never displace another knight.
The owner of the displaced knight must move this knight to
any empty intersection that is connected, by roads, to the place
from which it was displaced. The status of the displaced knight
(active or inactive) does not change.
If there is no empty intersection for the displaced knight to
move to, it is removed from the board.
You may not displace your own knights.
After you displace an opponent’s knight, move your
(displacing) knight to the displaced knight’s former intersection.
Your knight is then turned over to it’s inactive side.
Example: See Illustration P. Red is at it again! She moves
her strong knight to the intersection indicated by the red
arrow. Red may do this because her knight is stronger than
Blue’s (basic) knight (note the number of rings), and Red
has a road that connects the two intersections. Blue must now
move his displaced knight to “A” or “B,” which are
both connected to
the knight’s original
position by roads. Blue
moves his knight to “B.”
Note that “C” is not a
connected site, so he
cannot move to that
spot.
Chasing Away the
Robber
You may use one of
your active knights to chase away the robber. Any knight may
do so, regardless of its strength. A knight may only chase away a
robber if the robber is on one of the three hexes adjacent to that
knight.
When you chase away the robber, move it to any numbered
hex and steal one resource from any player who has a settlement
or city adjacent to that hex (as if you had played a knight card
from the Catan base game development deck). After you chase
away the robber, your knight is turned over to its inactive side.
Example: See Illustration Q. Red’s knight can only chase
away the robber from the gray hexes. In order for Red to
chase away the robber, she must first move her knight to
intersection “A” or “B” (which makes the knight inactive).
Then Red must pay one grain to activate her knight. On a
future turn, she could then use this knight to chase away the
robber.
attaCK oF the
BarBarians!
Catan is in constant
danger of attack from
the barbarians that live
across the sea. Each turn
the event die shows a
black ship, the barbarian
navy moves one space
closer towards Catan.
Illustration P
BBAA
CC
Illustration Q
BB
AA
Illustration O
AA
CC
BB

[Page 11]
1111
When the ship reaches the red-circled space that depicts
barbarians landing on the shore,
the barbarians attack Catan!
When the barbarians attack, follow
these steps:
Determine the Barbarians’
Strength
The strength of the barbarians
is equal to the number of cities
(including metropolises) owned by
all players. Add up all of the cities owned by all of the players
anywhere on the island to determine this strength.
Determine the Strength of Catan’s Knights
All active knights of all players (even those who do not own
any cities) will defend against the barbarians. Only the active
knights are counted, the inactive knights do not assist in
defending the island in any way. Remember that the strength
of each knight is based upon its type: basic (1), strong (2),
or mighty (3). Sum up the value of all the active knights to
determine the strength of the defending army.
Compare Attackers’ and Defenders’ Strengths
There are 2 possible outcomes of this battle:
• If the barbarians are stronger, they are victorious! If the
barbarians win the battle, they pillage one or more cities.
Pillaged cities are reduced to settlements (replace the city
piece with a settlement). The barbarians pillage one city
belonging to the player who had the lowest total strength of
active knights when the barbarians attacked. Any player who
contributed no knights are automatically considered to have
the lowest total strength of active knights. If various players
tie for having the lowest total strength of active knights,
each of those players loses 1 of their own cities.
Important: When determining which player has contributed
the weakest group of knights, do not count any player who
has no cities or any player who has only metropolises. These
players are immune to the effects of the barbarian attack.
If the barbarians pillage a city that has a city wall, the city
wall is destroyed and removed from the board.
Example: Players A and B each have two cities. Player C has
only a metropolis, and player D has only settlements. The
barbarians attack, and their strength is 5 (i.e., 4 cities plus 1
metropolis). Players A, B, and D each have one simple knight
activated, and player C has no active knights. Therefore, the
knights defend with a strength of 3. Since the knights are
weaker, the barbarians win and Catan loses. Because of
the loss, players A and B each lose one of their cities. Player
C cannot lose anything because she has only a metropolis.
Similarly, player D has no cities to lose. Even though C
contributed fewer knights than all the other players, since she
is immune to the attack it is the next smallest contributor who
thus suffers the effects of the barbarians.
• If the knights have a strength equal to or greater than the
barbarians, the knights win and Catan is saved! The player
with the highest total strength of active knights (this will
not always be the greatest number
of knights) will be declared the
“Defender of Catan!” As a reward,
that player is presented with one
“Defender of Catan” victory point
(VP) cards. Each VP card is worth
1 VP and is placed face-up in front
of the player. If 2 or more players
tie for the highest total strength
of knights, no player is declared
Defender of Catan, and no one
receives a VP card. Instead, each of
the players who tie for the highest
strength draws the top card from
any 1 of the 3 progress card stacks
(his choice). In clockwise order,
each eligible player selects 1 card,
starting with the player who rolled
the dice this turn.
Barbarians Return Home
Regardless of the outcome of the attack, the barbarian ship
is returned to its starting position. All knights on the board
are turned so that their inactive (black & white) side faces up.
Starting with the next player’s turn, the barbarians will begin a
new journey to the rich island of Catan.
Victory Point
1
© 2020 Catan GmbH
DEFENDER OF CATAN
Victory Point Card
(Back & Front)

[Page 12]
1212
Losing Your Last City
If you are unfortunate enough to have your last city
pillaged by the barbarians, you are allowed to keep any city
improvements that you may have built before the attack. You
also keep all of your progress cards. You may continue to draw
and play progress cards normally. Note, however, that you may
not build any additional city improvements until you have built
at least one city. Once you own a city again, you may continue to
purchase city improvements normally.
the merChant
The merchant piece is put into play whenever any player uses
one of the “Merchant” progress cards (from the yellow stack). If
you play one of these cards, you may place the merchant piece
on any land hex adjacent to one of your cities or settlements.
Until another merchant card is played, you may trade the
resource (not commodity) that is produced in that land hex at a
2:1 rate. All of the normal rules for trading at a 2:1 harbor are in
effect for these trades.
Note: In addition, as long as you retain control of the
merchant, you receive 1 victory point!
If another merchant card is played, whoever played that card
(it could be you) takes control of the merchant. If you played
that card, you may move the Merchant to any hex adjacent to
one of your settlements or cities. You receive the trade benefit,
and gets the bonus victory point.
endinG the Game
The first player to accumulate 13 or more victory points
during their turn immediately wins the game. This player
becomes the “Lord of All Catan” and receives the endless praise
and love of all the people of Catan!
© 2020 Catan GmbH
CONSTITUTION
1 Victory Point!
Reveal this card immediately
when you draw it. This card
cannot be stolen by a spy.
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Each player who has as many
or more victory points than you
must discard half of their
own cards to the bank
(resource and/or commodity).
SABOTEUR
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may activate all of
your knights for free.
WARLORD
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Name a resource
(brick, grain, ore, lumber, or wool).
Each opponent must give you
2 cards of that type
(if they have any).
RESOURCE MONOPOLY
© 2020 Catan GmbH
For the rest of your turn, you
may trade one resource or
commodity of your choice with
the bank at a 2:1 rate.
You may make as many
trades as you wish.
MERCHANT FLEET
© 2020 Catan GmbH
When you play this card,
you may place 2 roads for free
(if playing with Catan: Seafarers,
you may place 2 ships or
1 ship and 1 road instead).
ROAD BUILDING
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may build
1 city wall for free.
ENGINEER
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may take 2 grain cards
from the bank for each fields
hex which is adjacent to
at least one of your
cities or settlements.
IRRIGATION
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Play this card before you
roll the dice. You decide
what the results of both
numbered dice will be. Then
roll the event die normally.
Resolve the event die first.
ALCHEMIST
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Choose 1 opponent.
They must remove 1 knight
of their choice from the board.
You may place 1 of your own
knights on the board (its
strength must be equal to
the knight removed).
DESERTER
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may displace one of your
opponent’s knights, without using
a knight of your own. The knight
must be on an intersection
connected to one of your
roads or lines of ships.
INTRIGUE
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may remove any open road
(a road with nothing attached at
one end). If you remove one of
your own roads, you may place
it in another location.
DIPLOMAT
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Name a commodity
(cloth, coin, or paper).
Each opponent must
give you 1 card of that
type (if they have any).
TRADE MONOPOLY
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may offer each opponent
1 resource card from your hand.
In exchange, each player must
give you 1 commodity card of
their choice. If they have none,
your resource card is returned.
COMMERCIAL HARBOR
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may promote up to
2 of your knights for free
(the normal rules for promoting
knights still apply). Mighty
knights may not be promoted.
SMITH
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may swap 2 number
tokens of your choice
on the game board.
You may not choose any
2, 12, 6, or 8 tokens.
INVENTOR
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may take 2 ore cards from
the bank for each mountains
hex adjacent to at least one
of your cities or settlements.
MINING
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Examine an opponent’s hand
of progress cards. You may take
1 card of your choice and
add it to your hand.
SPY
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Each player who has more
victory points than you must
give you 2 cards of their choice
(resource and/or commodity).
WEDDING
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Move the robber. You may
draw 1 random card (resource
or commodity) from the hand
of each player who has a
settlement or city adjacent
to the robber’s new hex.
BISHOP
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Select an opponent who has
more victory points than you.
You may examine their hand of
resource and commodity cards
and select any 2 cards, which
you may add to your hand.
MASTER MERCHANT
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Place the merchant on a
land hex next to your settlement
or city. While the merchant
remains here, you may trade
the resource produced by this
terrain at a 2:1 ratio.
MERCHANT
© 2020 Catan GmbH
For 2 ore and 1 grain,
you may upgrade one of your
settlements into a city.
MEDICINE
© 2020 Catan GmbH
PRINTER
1 Victory Point!
Reveal this card immediately
when you draw it. This card
cannot be stolen by a spy.
© 2020 Catan GmbH
One city improvement
(abbey, town hall, etc.)
that you build this turn
costs one less commodity
than usual.
CRANE
See the Almanac on pages 14-18 for card details.
Progress
Cards
ScienceScience
TradeTrade
PoliticsPolitics
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Place the merchant on a
land hex next to your settlement
or city. While the merchant
remains here, you may trade
the resource produced by this
terrain at a 2:1 ratio.
MERCHANT
Merchant Card
(Front & Back)
Merchant Piece

[Page 13]
1313
variants and optional rules
These rules are strictly optional and should only be used if
agreed on by all players before the game begins.
seaFarers oF Catan variant
You may use the Catan: Seafarers Expansion along with the
Cities & Knights Expansion. The best scenarios to use are those
that do not involve the exploration of hidden portions of the
board (such as “The Fog Islands”) or many small islands (such
as “The Four Islands”), as these types of scenarios may make it
too difficult to combat the barbarian army. Scenarios such as
“Heading for New Shores,” or “Through the Desert” both work
very well with the new rules included in Cities & Knights. If you
choose to play Cities & Knights with the Seafarers, here are some
important rules:
• All rules in Cities & Knights that concern “roads” also apply
to “ships” as well.
• When the barbarians attack, they are assumed to attack all
the islands, counting all cities and knights on all of them.
• Knights may be moved across sea hexes if roads and ships
connect the intersection the knight starts from to the
intersection it is moved to.
• You may move a knight to an intersection of sea hexes (but
not place a new knight there) if you have a line of ships
to that intersection. The knight is considered to be on the
adjacent ship.
• A knight must always be connected to a settlement or city
of its color. If you have a knight at sea, or across the sea on
another island, you may not move any ships if they would
break this connection (the route is considered “closed”).
• You can use a knight on a sea hex intersection to chase
away the pirate, just as you would chase away the robber.
nastY variant For experienCed plaYers
This rule adds a new level of strategy and politics to the battle
between the barbarians and the knights. Be warned: Using this
rule can make the game very nasty (and longer as well).
When the barbarians land, all of the knights are no longer
assumed to aid in the defense of Catan. Beginning with the
player who rolled the dice this turn, one after another each
player will declare how many of their own active knights will be
defending Catan. Each player may choose to commit some, none,
or all of their active knights to the defense. This may cause Catan
to lose the battle (due to a shortage of knight strength), which
would resulting in some players losing a city. Only knights that
are committed to the defense count toward the strength of the
knight army, and only committed knights are taken into account
when determining who contributed the weakest force (and will
have a city pillaged).
KniGht-errant variant
This rule allows you to use one of your active knights to chase
away the robber before rolling the dice on your turn. Your knight
becomes deactivated. (See Illustration R.) This has the same
effect as playing a knight card before rolling in the Catan base
game.
easY start variant
Many players, especially those new to the game, find it difficult
to get started if a lot of “7”s are rolled and/or the barbarians
strike early. For these players, or for players who wish a friendlier
game, use these rules:
• If any player rolls a “7” on that player’s first two turns, they
should re-roll. Continue rolling until a result other than “7”
is obtained. Beginning with the first player’s 3rd turn, all of
the normal rules for rolling a “7” apply.
• Do not roll the event die during the first two turns of each
player. The barbarian ship does not move, and no player
draws any progress cards during this time. Starting with the
first player’s third turn, roll all three dice and resolve
them normally.
This variant is designed to give all players a chance to
get “rolling” at the beginning of the game without being
handicapped by an early barbarian attack or by rolling
a lot of “7”s.
the almanaC
The following pages (14-19) contain a list with the names and
descriptions of all of the progress cards in Cities & Knights. You
may find it useful to familiarize yourself with all of the cards
before playing. You may then refer to this section as needed
during play.
Note: The number after the name of each card is the total
number of that type of card in the deck.
44••••••
88••••••••••
Red player
uses knight to
move robber
from the “8”
hex to the
“4” hex.
Illustration R

[Page 14]
1414
Inventor (2)
Switch two number tokens of
your choice, but not 2, 12, 6, or 8.
You can improve your
production! You may choose any
two number tokens (except 2, 12 6
or 8) and switch their places on the
board. You do not have to have a
settlement or city next to the hexes
with the numbers you are swapping.
If, for example, you choose a “9”
and an “11”, take the “9” token
and put it on the hex where the
“11” token is. Take the “11” token
and put it on the hex where the
“9” token was. You can choose to
exchange a token that is on the hex
occupied by the robber.
Irrigation (2)
Collect 2 grain cards for each
fields hex adjacent to at least one of
your settlements or cities.
You receive 2 grain cards for each
fields hex next to any of your
settlements and cities. Unlike
normal production, cities do not
increase this bonus.
Example: You have two cities
next to a fields hex. You have
a settlement next to a different
field. If you play the Irrigation
card, you will receive 4 grain
cards.
Medicine (2)
You may upgrade a settlement to
a city for 2 ore and 1 grain.
When you play this card, you save
1 ore and 1 grain. You may not
combine two of these cards for the
same city.
Alchemist (2)
This is the only progress card you
can play before you roll the dice. It
allows you to choose the results of
both production dice. Then, roll the
event die as normal and resolve the
event.
When you play this card, take the
red and yellow dice and turn
them so the result you want is
face up. You can even make the
dice roll “7.” However, the event
has to be resolved first. Then
players receive their production
as normal. You may not play this
card after you roll the dice.
Crane (2)
You can build a city improvement
(abbey, town hall, etc.) for
1 commodity less than normal.
The Crane can only be used to
reduce the cost of building one
city improvement (turning over
a page of your flip-chart). If you
build a city, you must pay the
normal resource costs. You may
use a Crane to reduce the cost
of a first-level improvement (to
nothing). You may not combine
2 Crane cards for the same
improvement.
Engineer (1)
You may build one city wall
for free.
Take a city wall and put it under
one of your cities. A city wall
increases the number of cards
you can safely hold in your hand
when a “7” is rolled, by 2 cards.
Each city can only have 1 city
wall, and you cannot have more
than 3 city walls at a time.
science caRds
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may build
1 city wall for free.
ENGINEER
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Play this card before you
roll the dice. You decide
what the results of both
numbered dice will be. Then
roll the event die normally.
Resolve the event die first.
ALCHEMIST
© 2020 Catan GmbH
One city improvement
(abbey, town hall, etc.)
that you build this turn
costs one less commodity
than usual.
CRANE
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may swap 2 number
tokens of your choice
on the game board.
You may not choose any
2, 12, 6, or 8 tokens.
INVENTOR
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may take 2 grain cards
from the bank for each fields
hex which is adjacent to
at least one of your
cities or settlements.
IRRIGATION
© 2020 Catan GmbH
For 2 ore and 1 grain,
you may upgrade one of your
settlements into a city.
MEDICINE

[Page 15]
1515
Mining (2)
Collect 2 ore cards for each
mountains hex adjacent to at least
one of your settlements or cities.
You receive 2 ore cards for each
mountains hex next to any of
your settlements and cities.
Unlike normal production, cities
do not increase this bonus.
Example: You have 2 settlements
next to a mountains hex, and a
city next to a different mountains
hex. If you play the Mining card,
you will receive 4 ore cards.
Printer (1)
This card awards you 1 victory
point.
You must play this card face up
in front of you immediately when
you draw it, even if it is not your
turn. You may not keep VP cards
in your hand. It does not count
toward your hand limit of 4
progress cards, and it may not be
stolen by the Spy.
Road Building (2)
This card allows you to build 2
roads for free.
The roads you build do not have
to be adjacent to each other.
These roads cost you nothing to
build. You must follow all the
normal building rules. If you are
also playing with the Seafarers
expansion, you may build 2
roads, 1 road and 1 ship, or 2
ships when you play this card.
Smith (2)
You may promote 2 of your knights
1 level each for free.
You may not promote “mighty”
knights. You may promote a knight
regardless of whether it is active or
inactive. The condition of the knight
(active or inactive) does not change.
You may only promote a “strong”
knight (level 2) if you have built the
“Fortress” city improvement (politics–
blue). You may only promote a knight
one level per turn.
© 2020 Catan GmbH
When you play this card,
you may place 2 roads for free
(if playing with Catan: Seafarers,
you may place 2 ships or
1 ship and 1 road instead).
ROAD BUILDING
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may promote up to
2 of your knights for free
(the normal rules for promoting
knights still apply). Mighty
knights may not be promoted.
SMITH
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may take 2 ore cards from
the bank for each mountains
hex adjacent to at least one
of your cities or settlements.
MINING
© 2020 Catan GmbH
PRINTER
1 Victory Point!
Reveal this card immediately
when you draw it. This card
cannot be stolen by a spy.
City Development Generates
Progress Card Production

[Page 16]
1616
Bishop (2)
Move the robber, following the
normal rules. Draw 1 random
resource/commodity card from each
player who has a settlement or city
next to the robber’s new hex.
When you use this card to
move the robber, you can steal 1
random card from each player
who has a settlement or city
next to the hex that you move to,
instead of stealing from only
1 player. If a player has more
than 1 settlement or city there,
you can still only steal one card
from that player.
Constitution (1)
This card awards you 1 victory
point. You must play this card face
up in front of you immediately
when you draw it, even if it is not
your turn.
You may not keep Victory Point
in your hand. It does not count
toward your hand limit of
4 progress cards, and it may not
be stolen by the Spy.
Deserter (2)
Choose 1 opponent. They must
remove 1 knight of their choice
from the board. You may then place
1 of your own knights, on the board.
Its strength must equal to the
knight removed (the normal rules
for placing knights apply).
When you play this card, your
opponent chooses which of their
own knights to remove from the
board. If they choose a knight that
you do not have available (for
example, a “strong” knight and
both of your “strong” knights are
already on the board), you may
place a basic knight instead. If
you cannot place any knights,
your opponent must still remove
one of their own knights. You just
lose the opportunity to place a
knight for free. If your opponent removes a “mighty” knight,
you may place one of your “mighty” knights even if you have
not yet built the “Fortress” city improvement (politics—blue).
The knight you place has the same status (active or inactive)
as the knight your opponent removed.
Diplomat (2)
You may remove an “open”
road (without another road or
other piece at one end). If you
remove your own road, you may
immediately place it somewhere
else on the island (following all the
normal building rules) for free.
An “open” road is a road at the
beginning or end of a chain of
roads that does not have a knight,
city, or settlement of the same
color attached at one end. If you
remove an opponent’s road, it
returns to their supply. If you
remove your own road, then you
may place it immediately on the
board, free of charge (following
the normal building rules—
connected to your own road or
settlement/city). You may remove
your own road and choose not to
replace it.
Intrigue (2)
You may displace an opponent’s
knight. The knight must be on an
intersection connected to at least
one of your roads or shipping
routes.
With this card you can displace
an opponent’s knight without
using a knight of your own. You
can play this card even if you
have no knights of your own. The
displaced knight must be moved
to an empty space. If the knight
cannot be displaced, then remove
it from the board (return it to
its owner). After the knight is
displaced), you may place a basic
knight instead, following the
normal rules.
Politics caRds
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Choose 1 opponent.
They must remove 1 knight
of their choice from the board.
You may place 1 of your own
knights on the board (its
strength must be equal to
the knight removed).
DESERTER
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Move the robber. You may
draw 1 random card (resource
or commodity) from the hand
of each player who has a
settlement or city adjacent
to the robber’s new hex.
BISHOP
© 2020 Catan GmbH
CONSTITUTION
1 Victory Point!
Reveal this card immediately
when you draw it. This card
cannot be stolen by a spy.
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may remove any open road
(a road with nothing attached at
one end). If you remove one of
your own roads, you may place
it in another location.
DIPLOMAT
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may displace one of your
opponent’s knights, without using
a knight of your own. The knight
must be on an intersection
connected to one of your
roads or lines of ships.
INTRIGUE

[Page 17]
1717
Saboteur (2)
When you play this card, each
player who has as many or more
victory points than you must
discard half (round down) of their
cards to the bank (resource and/or
commodity cards).
Your agents spread chaos in your
opponents’ cities! Each of the
other players who has at least as
many victory points as you must
discard half of their resource/
commodity cards. Each player
chooses which of their own cards
to discard.
Spy (3)
Look at another player’s hand
of progress cards. You may choose
1 card to take and add to
your hand.
You may even steal another Spy
and play it immediately or save
it for later. Victory point cards
cannot be stolen.
Warlord (2)
You may activate all of your
knights for free.
When you play this card, you can
activate your knights without
paying any grain. Remember
that a knight may not perform
any actions during the turn
after it is activated, but you can
activate it after it has performed
an action that turn.
Wedding (2)
Each of your opponents who has
more victory points than you must
give you 2 resource/commodity
cards of their choice.
If any of these players only have
1 card in hand, that player must
give you that card. If any of these
players have no cards, then that
player gives you nothing. Players
whose victory points are equal
to or lower than yours, are not
affected by this card.
Commercial Harbor (2)
You may force each of the other
players to make a special trade.
You may offer each opponent any 1
resource card from your hand. They
must exchange it for any
1 commodity card of their choice
from their hand, if they have any.
You may use this ability at any
time during the turn you play
the card. However, you may
only force each player to make
this trade with you once that
turn. Opponent choose which
commodity card to give you if
they have more than 1. If you
offer a resource to a player who
has no commodity cards, take
your resource card back and the
trade is void.
Master Merchant (2)
Choose another player who
has more victory points than you
do. Look at the player’s hand of
resource and commodity cards and
choose 2 cards to take and add to
your hand.
You can only play this card on an
opponent who has more victory
points than you. There is no
defense against this “trade.”
Merchant (6)
Place the Merchant on any land
hex next to 1 of your settlements
or cities. You may exchange the
resources produced by this type of
hex with the supply at a 2:1 rate, as
long as the merchant remains on
that hex.
When you play this card, take the
merchant and put it on any land
hex next to one or more of your
settlements or cities. As long as the
merchant remains here (under
your control), you may trade the
type of resource produced by this
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may activate all of
your knights for free.
WARLORD
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Each player who has more
victory points than you must
give you 2 cards of their choice
(resource and/or commodity).
WEDDING
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Each player who has as many
or more victory points than you
must discard half of their
own cards to the bank
(resource and/or commodity).
SABOTEUR
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Examine an opponent’s hand
of progress cards. You may take
1 card of your choice and
add it to your hand.
SPY
© 2020 Catan GmbH
You may offer each opponent
1 resource card from your hand.
In exchange, each player must
give you 1 commodity card of
their choice. If they have none,
your resource card is returned.
COMMERCIAL HARBOR
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Select an opponent who has
more victory points than you.
You may examine their hand of
resource and commodity cards
and select any 2 cards, which
you may add to your hand.
MASTER MERCHANT
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Place the merchant on a
land hex next to your settlement
or city. While the merchant
remains here, you may trade
the resource produced by this
terrain at a 2:1 ratio.
MERCHANT
tRade
caRds

[Page 18]
1818
hex with the supply at a 2:1 rate (as is the case with a special
harbor). As usual, you may also exchange these resources for
commodities. If another player plays a merchant card, that
player takes control of the merchant and receives the trade
advantage and the victory point. If you want to move the
merchant to a different hex, you will have to play another
merchant card. The robber does not affect the merchant.
You also receive 1 victory point for as long as you control the
merchant.
Credits
Design: Klaus Teuber (www.klausteuber.com)
Original Development: TM-Spiele GmbH
5th Ed. Development Team: Pete Fenlon, Arnd Fischer,
Ron Magin, Benjamin Teuber, and Guido Teuber
Art: Michael Menzel, Harald Lieske, Stephen Graham Walsh
Art Direction & Graphic Design: Pete Fenlon,
Michaela Kienle, and Ron Magin
Production: Ron Magin & Pete Fenlon
Special Thanks: Robert T. Carty, Jr., Coleman Charlton,
Morgan Dontanville, Chris Funk, Alex Colón Hernández,
Stephanie Newman, Antonio Pigafetta (LSKC/39-444), Donna
Prior, and Kelli Schmitz.
Original Game Development: William Niebling, Guido Teuber, Coleman
Charlton, Robert T. Carty Jr., Will Niebling, William Niebling, Alex Yeager, Larry
Roznai, Nick Johnson, and Pete Fenlon.
With Thanks To: Arnd Beenen, Peter Bromley, Darwin Bromley, Ariel Butler,
Keywood Cheeves, Emily Johnson, Nick Johnson, Olivia Johnston, Wolfgang Lüdtke,
Luc Mertens, Mike Szul, Reiner Müller, Schar Niebling, David Platnick, Lou Rexing,
Karl Roelofs, Alan Roireau, Bridget Roznai, Loren Roznai, Benny Teuber, Claudia
Teuber, Liam Teuber, Leif Teuber, Tom Smith, Mike Strack, Karl Roelofs, H. Jean
Vanaise, Trella Wilhite, Bill Wordelmann, Elaine Wordelmann.
Copyright © 2020 Catan GmbH and Catan Studio. Catan,
Catan–Cities & Knights, The Settlers of Catan, the “Catan Sun”
logo, the “Glowing Yellow Sun” and “Catan Board” marks, and
all marks herein are trademarks of Catan GmbH and are used
under license by Catan Studio. Published by Catan Studio,
1995 W. County Rd. B2, Roseville, MN 55113.
Phone +1.651.639.1905.
Gamegenic and the Gamegenic logo are TM & © Gamegenic
GmbH, Germany. All rights reserved.
You have purchased a game of the highest quality.
However, if you find any components missing
or damaged, please visit:
www.catanstudio.com/parts
For all other inquiries, contact us at:
info@catanstudio.com
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Name a commodity
(cloth, coin, or paper).
Each opponent must
give you 1 card of that
type (if they have any).
TRADE MONOPOLY
© 2020 Catan GmbH
For the rest of your turn, you
may trade one resource or
commodity of your choice with
the bank at a 2:1 rate.
You may make as many
trades as you wish.
MERCHANT FLEET
© 2020 Catan GmbH
Name a resource
(brick, grain, ore, lumber, or wool).
Each opponent must give you
2 cards of that type
(if they have any).
RESOURCE MONOPOLY
Merchant Fleet (2)
You may use one resource or
commodity of your choice to make
any number of 2:1 trades with the
supply during the turn that you play
this card.
For the rest of the turn, you may
trade one resource or commodity
of your choice at a 2:1 rate.
You can make as many such
trades as you wish. As usual, you
may exchange commodities for
resources and vice versa.
Resource Monopoly (4)
Name a resource. Each player
must give you 2 of that type of
resource if they have them.
You may name any of the
5 resources (ore, grain, wool,
lumber, or brick). Each player
that has the named resource must
give you 2. Any player that has
only has 1 of that resource, must
give you that 1 card.
Trade Monopoly (2)
Name a commodity. Each player
must give you 1 commodity of that
type if they have them.
You may name any of the
3 commodities (coin, paper,
or cloth). Each player that has
the named commodity must give
you 1.
Studio™
catanstudio.com catan.com

[Page 19]
1919
almanaC index
Entries Page
Game Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Game Components. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
What You Need From Your Catan Game . . . . . . . . . . . .2
New Game Pieces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Knights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Development Flip-chart. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
City Walls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Setting Up the Island of Catan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Tiles and the Barbarian Tile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Setting Up the Game. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Set-Up Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Turn Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Specific Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Dice Rolls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Trading and Building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
City Walls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Knights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Playing Progress Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Commodities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
City Improvements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
The Metropolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Progress Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Acquiring Progress Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Playing Progress Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Knights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Moving a Knight. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Displacing a Knight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Chasing Away the Robber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Attack of the Barbarians! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Determine the Barbarian Strength . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Determine the Strength of Catan’s Knights . . . . . . . . 11
Compare Attackers’ and Defenders’ Strengths . . . . . . . 11
Barbarians Return Home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Losing Your Last City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
The Merchant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Ending the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Variants and Optional Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Catan: Seafarers Variant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Nasty Variant for Experienced Players . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Knight-Errant Variant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Easy Start Variant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Almanac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Science Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Politics Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Trade Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
If you would like to protect your cards in this game, we
recommend Gamegenic card sleeves.
The badge below indicates what style of sleeves and the
number of packs required to sleeve all of the cards in this CATAN
expansion.

[Page 20]
2020
settinG up the Game
• Construct the frame around the board.
• Construct the board as shown, according to the scenario or using random set-up.
• Place number markers on the board.
• Sort the new commodity cards according to type into 3 face-up stacks.
• Divide the progress cards according to type (by flag color) into 3 face-down stacks.
• Place the 3 metropolises, the merchant cone, the 3 dice (1 yellow, 1 red, and 1 event die),
and the “Longest Road” card near the island.
• Place the black wooden ship on the “barbarian ship” space on the barbarian tile. On its
way to Catan, the barbarian ship will move along the depicted track.
• Place the robber on the desert hex.
• First, starting with the first player and continuing clockwise, each player places
1 settlement and 1 road (as in Catan).
• Second, starting with the last player who placed a
settlement and continuing counterclockwise, each
player places 1 city and 1 road. (The first player to
place a settlement will be the last to place a city).
No city may be placed fewer than 2 hex edges away
from any city or settlement.
• Each player receives their first
resources when they place their city—
receiving 1 resource for each
terrain adjacent to their city.
• Players place their
development flip-charts
in front of themselves
with the first page
showing
(indicating no city
improvements).
Studio™
55••••••••
22
••
1010••••••
1010••••••
88••••••••••
1212
••99••••••••
33••••
66••••••••••
55••••••••
1111••••
1111••••
33••••
66••••••••••
99••••••••
44••••••
44••••••
88••••••••••
Starting Set-up
for Beginners
Beginners should set up
the game according to
the example shown here.
turn sequenCe
• Roll all 3 dice.
• Resolve the results of the white event die.
• Depending on the white event die and
the red die, players may draw progress
cards.
• All players produce the resources
indicated by the red and yellow dice.
• All players produce the commodities
indicated by the red and yellow dice.
• You do any or all of the following in any
order:
– Trade resources and/or commodities
with bank and/or other players.
– Build roads, settlements, cities,
knights, city walls, and/or city
improvements.
– Activate, promote, and/or perform
actions with knights.
– Play any number of progress cards.
City Production
Terrain Resources Commodities
Forest 1 Wood 1 Paper
Pasture 1 Wool 1 Cloth
Fields 2 Grain None
Hills 2 Brick None
Mountains 1 Ore 1 Coin