[Page 1]


[Page 2]


[Page 3]


[Page 4]


[Page 5]
Text version
Cranium
Transcribed by hand from the four scanned pages before this one, whose own text could not be read. The text of each
scanned page follows on a page of its own, in the same order. Words in square brackets describe the pictures.
Transcribes scanned page 1
CRANIUM
NUMBER OF PLAYERS: 4 OR MORE
THIS GAME IS FOR ADULTS
OR PEOPLE WHO ARE "ADULT-LIKE"
Welcome to Cranium, the outrageously fun party game for four or more players that gets you and your team sculpting,
acting, puzzling, and even spelling backwards to win!
OBJECT OF THE GAME
Be the first team to move around the board and into Cranium Central - then complete one final activity for the win!
GET READY
1. Divide into two teams of two or more players. If you're a large group, you can divide into as many as four teams, as
long as each team has at least two players. The game is longer, but just as fun!
2. Each team chooses a mover and places it on the purple space labeled START.
3. Set out the four card boxes: Creative Cat, Word Worm, Star Performer, and Data Head.
4. Set out the die, timer, and tub of Cranium Clay.
5. Give each team a notepad and pencil (not included).

[Page 6]
Transcribes scanned page 2
CHOOSE HOW LONG TO PLAY
Fold the board to pick the game length you want.
- QUICK GAME (30 MINUTES)*
- MID-SIZED GAME (60 MINUTES)*
- FULL-SIZED GAME (90 MINUTES)*
*This is our best guess. Actual game times may vary depending on luck, adequate and/or distracting snacks, and the
overall brilliance of the players.
NOW YOU'RE READY TO PLAY CRANIUM!
Notice: Cranium Clay contains wheat.
ON YOUR TURN
The team with the player whose birthday is coming up next goes first.
1. In Cranium, you roll at the end of your turn, after you successfully complete an activity. The color of the space your
mover is on matches the color of the Cranium activity card you'll play.
[Illustration label: Planet Cranium]
On your first turn, and every time you're on a purple or Planet Cranium space, your team can choose from any one of
the four character card boxes.
2. Have the team to your right draw your card and read it aloud to you.
3. When you're ready, the team to your right starts the timer. Your team must successfully complete the activity before
time runs out.
4. Were you successful?
Yes! Roll the die and move to the next color indicated on the die. If you are playing the mid-sized or full-sized game, you
must stop at every Planet Cranium - even if your roll would otherwise take you past it. Now your turn is over. Play
passes to your left.
No. Don't roll or move. Now your turn is over. You'll have to wait until your next turn and try again.
REMEMBER: IN CRANIUM, YOU ROLL AT THE END OF YOUR TURN, AFTER YOU HAVE SUCCESSFULLY
COMPLETED AN ACTIVITY.
OVER

[Page 7]
Transcribes scanned page 3
ALL-PLAY CARDS
An all-play card pauses the game and gives all the teams a chance to compete at the same time. The first team to
shout out the correct answer before time runs out wins an instant bonus roll.
After an all-play card is played, the winner takes one bonus roll and moves. Then the team whose turn it was when the
all-play card was drawn takes its regular turn.
[Illustration: example all-play card]
ALL-PLAY CLOODLE
Everyone plays this all-play Cloodle! Choose one artist from each team to draw clues on paper with no talking, letters,
or symbols.
The first team to guess the answer wins an immediate bonus roll. If this card was drawn on your turn, you get another
card after the winner's bonus roll.
HINT: TV SHOW
If an all-play card is drawn while you're on a Planet Cranium...
If your team wins the all-play card and it was your first activity while on a Planet Cranium, roll and move onto the fast
track.
If your team doesn't win the all-play card and it was your first activity while on a Planet Cranium, don't worry - you can
still try to get on the fast track on your regular turn. (Remember: an all-play card is a pause in the regular game.)
Getting on the fast track
When you play the full-sized game, every Planet Cranium gives you a chance to get on the fast track. If your team is
successful on the first activity you do on a Planet Cranium, hop on the inner fast track. Otherwise, take the scenic route
- the outer path.
You must stop at every Planet Cranium - even if your roll would otherwise take you past it. If you're on the fast track and
you roll purple, zoom straight ahead to the next Planet Cranium.
[Illustration labels: Planet Cranium; scenic route; fast track]

[Page 8]
Transcribes scanned page 4
HOW TO WIN
Enter Cranium Central. On your next turn, the other teams collectively choose the card box for your final activity.
If you are unsuccessful, you can try again on your next turn.
If your team is the first to successfully complete an activity in Cranium Central (all-play cards count, too),
congratulations! You've won Cranium!
[Illustration label: Cranium Central]
FOR EVERYTHING CRANIUM, VISIT CRANIUM.COM
If you have questions or comments about Cranium, please e-mail: consumer_affairs@hasbro.com. You can also write
to: Hasbro Games, Consumer Affairs Dept., P.O. Box 200, Pawtucket, RI 02862. Or call 888-836-7025 (toll-free for U.S.
and Canadian residents).
The CRANIUM name and logo, as well as all other distinctive names and elements of the game and its components
are trademarks of Cranium, Inc. (c) 1998, 2009 Cranium, Inc. Distributed by Hasbro, Inc., Pawtucket, RI 02862. All
Rights Reserved. Cranium is so outrageously fun, it's patented. (U.S. Pat. No. 6279909; AU 747332 and other Patents
Pending.)
HASBRO and its logo are trademarks of Hasbro and are used with permission. (c) 2009 Hasbro. All Rights Reserved.
TM and (R) denote U.S. trademarks.
Cranium Clay: If spilled, remove excess Cranium Clay, allow to dry, then scrape or vacuum deposits away. Always put
clay back in container after play.