[Page 1]
Something's afoot. The steward smiles at you like he has a secret, or like he thinks you have a
secret, or like you think he thinks you have a secret. There are secret plots brewing, you're sure
of it. At the very least, there are yours. A passing servant murmurs, "The eggs are on the plate."
You frantically search your codebook for the translation before realizing he means that
breakfast is ready. Excellent. Everything is going according to plan.
This is the 1st expansion to the game of Dominion. It has 300 cards. There are victory cards that
do something before the end of the game, cards that interact with victory cards, and underlings
that give you a choice as to what they do. Dominion: Intrigue cannot be played by itself; to play
with it, you need the Basic cards and rulebook (Dominion provides both). Dominion: Intrigue
can also be combined with any other Dominion expansions you have.
We hope you enjoy this expanding world of Dominion.
®

[Page 2]
2
300 cards
268 Kingdom cards
10 each of Baron, Bridge, Conspirator, Courtier, Courtyard, Diplomat, Ironworks, Lurker,
Masquerade, Mining Village, Minion, Patrol, Pawn, Replace, Secret Passage,
Shanty Town, Steward, Swindler, Torturer, Trading Post, Upgrade, Wishing Well
12 each of Duke, Harem, Mill, and Nobles
26 Randomizer cards (one of each Kingdom card with a blue banded back)
6 blank cards (unused)
1 Plastic organizer tray
1 Organizing Inlay
1 Rule booklet
Before the first game, remove the three sets of cards from their wrappings and place them in the card
tray. The included inlay suggests a way to organize the cards.
Intrigue has 26 Kingdom cards, with 26 corresponding randomizer cards. Players will need the Treasure
cards, Victory cards, Curse cards, and Trash mat/card from either Dominion or Base Cards; the first
edition of Intrigue included base cards but this edition does not. If players wish to choose Kingdom
cards randomly, they can shuffle the randomizer cards from this expansion with the ones from
Dominion and/or any other expansions they have.
Victory piles start with 8 cards for 2 players, 12 cards for 3-6 players. That includes Duke, Harem, Mill,
and Nobles.
Intrigue has cards that give players a choice between two or more options. A player given a choice picks
any choice, even if unable to do the instruction, then does as much of it as they can. For example, Sylvia
plays Steward with one card left in her hand. She can pick the "trash 2 cards from your hand" option
despite only having one card in hand. If she picks that option, she trashes the one card in her hand.
Sometimes one of the options of a card with a choice is to make + . To track the , players can push
the card up slightly from the line of played cards.
Intrigue has three Victory cards that have another type as well: Harem, Mill, and Nobles. These cards are
both types for all purposes. For example, since Nobles is an Action card, it can be played in the Action
phase, can be trashed from the Supply with Lurker, and so on; since it is a Victory card, it is worth
when scoring, is put into a player's hand due to Patrol, and so on.
Harem
Treasure - Victory
2
2
2 2
1
Mill
+1 Card
+1 Action
You may discard 2 cards,
for + .
Action - Victory
2
Nobles
Choose one: +3 Cards;
or +2 Actions.
Action - Victory

[Page 3]
It is the start of Molly's turn in a game vs. Kelly. Her hand is Mining Village, Shanty Town, Torturer,
Pawn, Copper.
Molly plays Mining Village, drawing Estate and getting +1 Action. She chooses not to trash the Mining
Village. She plays Torturer, drawing Silver, Estate, Shanty Town. Kelly chooses to gain a Curse to his hand.
Molly plays Shanty Town, getting +2 Actions, revealing her hand which does have Actions in it, and not
drawing.
She plays Pawn, choosing +1 Card and + . She draws a Silver. She plays another Shanty Town for +2
Actions, this time revealing a hand with no Actions and drawing Torturer and Bridge. She plays the
Torturer, drawing Shanty Town, Bridge, Copper. Kelly discards the Curse and a Copper.
Molly plays her last Shanty Town for +2 Actions, revealing her hand with Actions, and plays the two
Bridges, getting + and +2 Buys.
Now it is her Buy phase. She plays two Coppers and two Silvers. She has and 3 Buys (her normal Buy
plus the 2 from the Bridges). Cards cost less due to the Bridges. She buys two Torturers for each,
and a Mining Village for . She has left but no more Buys. She discards everything she played and
draws a new hand of 5 cards.
3

[Page 4]
Baron: You do not have to discard an Estate, but if you do not, you must gain an
Estate (if any are left).
Bridge: All cards, including cards in the Supply, in play, in decks, and in hands,
cost less for the rest of this turn, but not less than . For example after
playing Bridge, you could buy a Gold with , since Gold only costs ; you could
Upgrade Copper to Estate, since Copper still costs , but Estate costs ; you
could use Ironworks to gain a Duchy, since Duchy only costs . This is
cumulative; if you play two Bridges (or the same Bridge twice via Throne Room),
cards will cost less.
Conspirator: This counts Actions played this turn, rather than Action cards in
play. For example if you start a turn with Throne Room on a Conspirator, you get
+ for the first play of Conspirator, but + +1 Card +1 Action for the second
play of Conspirator. You only have two Action cards in play, but the second play of
Conspirator is your third Action played this turn.
Courtier: First reveal a card from your hand, then count the types. The types are
the words on the bottom line - including Action, Attack, Curse, Reaction,
Treasure, and Victory (with more in expansions). Then choose one different thing
per type the card had; if you revealed a card with two types, you pick two things.
For example you could reveal a Copper and choose "gain a Gold," or reveal a Mill
and choose "+1 Action" and "+ ." If you gain a Gold, put the Gold into your
discard pile.
Courtyard: The card you put on top does not have to be one of the 3 you just
drew.
Diplomat: When playing this, you get +2 Cards, then count your cards in hand,
and if you have 5 cards or fewer, you get +2 Actions. So, for example if you play
this from a hand of 5 cards, you will put it into play, going down to 4 cards, then
draw 2 cards, going up to 6 cards, and that is more than 5 cards so you would not
get the +2 Actions. Diplomat can also be used when another player plays an
Attack card, if you have at least 5 cards in hand. Before the Attack card does
anything, you can reveal a Diplomat from your hand; if you do, you draw 2 cards,
then discard 3 cards (which can include the Diplomat). If you still have at least 5
cards in hand after doing that (such as due to Council Rooms), you can reveal
Diplomat again and do it again. You reveal Reactions one at a time; you cannot
reveal two Diplomats simultaneously. You can reveal a Moat from your hand (to
be unaffected by an Attack) either before or after revealing and resolving a
Diplomat (even if the Moat was not in your hand until after resolving Diplomat).
Duke: For example, if you have five Duchies, then each of your Dukes is worth
5 . Use 8 Dukes for games with 2 players, 12 for games with 3 or more players.
4
+1 Buy
You may discard an Estate
for + . If you don’t, gain
an Estate.
Baron
Action
Bridge
+1 Buy
+
This turn, cards (everywhere)
cost less, but not
less than 0 .
Action
Conspirator
+
If you’ve played 3 or more
Actions this turn (counting
this), +1 Card and
+1 Action.
Action
Courtier
Reveal a card from your
hand. For each type it
has (Action, Attack, etc.),
choose one: +1 Action; or
+1 Buy; or + ; or gain a
Gold. The choices must be
different.
Action
Courtyard
+3 Cards
Put a card from your hand
onto your deck.
Action
+2 Cards
If you have 5 or fewer cards in hand
(after drawing), +2 Actions.
When another player plays an
Attack card, you may 昀rst reveal
this from a hand of 5 or more cards,
to draw 2 cards then discard 3.
Diplomat
Action - Reaction
Duke
Worth 1 per Duchy
you have.
Victory

[Page 5]
5
Harem: This can be played in your Buy phase like other Treasures, and is worth
2 at the end of the game. Use 8 Harems for games with 2 players, 12 for games
with 3 or more players.
Ironworks: The card you gain comes from the Supply and is put into your
discard pile. You get bonuses depending on the types of the card you gained. A
card with 2 types gives you both bonuses; if you use Ironworks to gain a Mill, you
both draw a card and get +1 Action.
Lurker: The card trashed or gained has to be an Action card, but can have other
types too. For example Lurker can trash Nobles from the Supply and can gain
Nobles from the trash. When gaining a card with Lurker, put the gained card into
your discard pile.
Masquerade: First you draw 2 cards. Then, all players at the same time choose a
card to pass left, putting it face down on the table between players. Then the
cards are passed; each player takes the passed card from the player to their right.
Players with no cards in hand (such as due to Torturer) are skipped over - they
neither pass a card nor receive one. Finally, you may trash a card from your hand.
This is not an Attack and so cannot be stopped with Moat. Passed cards are not
"gained" (which matters for some expansion cards, e.g. Trader from Dominion:
Hinterlands).
Mill: You can choose to discard 2 cards even if you only have one card in hand,
but you only get + if you actually discarded 2 cards. Use 8 Mills for games with
2 players, 12 for games with 3 or more players.
Mining Village: First draw a card and get +2 Actions; then choose whether or not
to trash Mining Village, getting + if you did. You may not trash Mining Village
later in the turn, only right then. If you Throne Room a Mining Village, you
cannot trash it twice (and so cannot get the + twice).
Minion: Players wishing to respond with e.g. Moat or Diplomat do so before you
choose your option. A player who Moats this neither discards nor draws.
Nobles: Use 8 copies of Nobles for games with 2 players, 12 for games with 3 or
more players.
Patrol: First draw 3 cards, then reveal the top 4 cards of your deck. Put the
revealed Victory cards and Curses into your hand; you have to take them all. Put
the rest of the cards back on your deck in any order you choose.
Pawn: You pick both things before doing either. You cannot pick the same option
twice.
Replace: Like Remodel, you first trash a card from your hand, then gain a card
from the Supply costing up to more than the trashed card, putting the gained
card into your discard pile. Replace gives you an additional bonus based on the
Harem
Treasure - Victory
2
2
2 2
Ironworks
Gain a card costing up to .
If the gained card is an...
Action card, +1 Action
Treasure card, +
Victory card, +1 Card
Action
Lurker
+1 Action
Choose one: Trash an
Action card from the Supply;
or gain an Action card from
the trash.
Action
Masquerade
+2 Cards
Each player with any cards
in hand passes one to the
next such player to their left,
at once. Then you may trash
a card from your hand.
Action
1
Mill
+1 Card
+1 Action
You may discard 2 cards,
for + .
Action - Victory
+1 Action
Choose one: + ; or discard
your hand, +4 Cards, and
each other player with at least
5 cards in hand discards their
hand and draws 4 cards.
Minion
Action - Attack
2
Nobles
Choose one: +3 Cards;
or +2 Actions.
Action - Victory
Mining Village
+1 Card
+2 Actions
You may trash this for + .
Action
Patrol
+3 Cards
Reveal the top 4 cards of
your deck. Put the Victory
cards and Curses into your
hand. Put the rest back in
any order.
Action
Pawn
Choose two: +1 Card;
+1 Action; +1 Buy; + .
The choices must be different.
Action

[Page 6]
6
types of the gained card; if it is an Action or Treasure you move it to the top of
your deck, and if it is a Victory card the other players each gain a Curse. It is
possible to get both bonuses; if you gain Harem, Mill, or Nobles with Replace, it
both goes on your deck and causes the other players to each gain a Curse.
Secret Passage: First draw 2 cards and get +1 Action; then put a card from your
hand anywhere in your deck. The card can be one you just drew or any other card
from your hand. It can go on top of your deck, on the bottom, or anywhere in-
between; you can count out a specific place to put it, e.g. four cards down. If there
are no cards left in your deck, the card put back becomes the only card in your
deck.
Shanty Town: You get +2 Actions, then reveal your hand. If it has no Action cards
in it (including Action cards with other types too, such as Nobles), then you draw
2 cards.
Steward: First choose one of the three options, then do it. If you pick "trash 2
cards from your hand" and only have one card in hand, you trash that card; if you
choose that option and have 2 or more cards in hand, you have to trash 2.
Swindler: When it matters (such as when piles are low), go in turn order,
starting with the player to your left. Each other player trashes their top card, and
gains a replacement you choose with the same cost. The card they gain comes
from the Supply and goes to their discard pile. For example if a player trashed
Copper, you might give them Curse, which costs like Copper does. You can give
a player back another copy of what they lost. If the Supply has no cards with the
same cost as the trashed card, the player fails to gain a card.
Torturer: If it matters, the other players choose what happens to them (and
resolve that) in turn order, starting to your left. A player can choose to gain a
Curse even with no Curses left (and thus not gain one), or to discard 2 cards even
with one or zero cards in hand (discarding their only card if they have one).
Gained Curses go to players' hands rather than their discard piles.
Trading Post: If you have only one card in hand, trash it and nothing else
happens; if you have 2 or more cards in hand, trash exactly 2 of them and gain a
Silver, putting it into your hand.
Upgrade: First draw a card and get +1 Action; then trash a card from your hand;
then gain a card costing exactly more than the trashed card. The gained card
comes from the Supply and is put into your discard pile. If there is no card
available at that cost, you do not gain a card; for example if you play Upgrade and
trash a Copper, in a game with nothing costing , you simply fail to gain a card.
Wishing Well: First you draw a card and get +1 Action. Then name a card - a
name, not a type, so e.g. "Copper," not "Treasure." Reveal the top card of your
deck. If it has the name you named, put it into your hand, otherwise leave it on
your deck.
Replace
Action - Attack
Trash a card from your hand.
Gain a card costing up to
more than it. If the gained
card is an Action or Treasure,
put it onto your deck; if it’s
a Victory card, each other
player gains a Curse.
Secret Passage
Action
+2 Cards
+1 Action
Take a card from your hand
and put it anywhere in your
deck.
Shanty Town
+2 Actions
Reveal your hand. If you
have no Action cards in
hand, +2 Cards.
Action
Choose one: +2 Cards; or
+ ; or trash 2 cards from
your hand.
Steward
Action
+
Each other player trashes the
top card of their deck and
gains a card with the same
cost that you choose.
Swindler
Action - Attack
Torturer
+3 Cards
Each other player either
discards 2 cards or gains a
Curse to their hand, their
choice. (They may pick an
option they can’t do.)
Action - Attack
+1 Card
+1 Action
Trash a card from your hand.
Gain a card costing exactly
more than it.
Upgrade
Action
Trading Post
Trash 2 cards from your
hand. If you did, gain a
Silver to your hand.
Action
Wishing Well
Action
+1 Card
+1 Action
Name a card, then reveal the
top card of your deck. If you
named it, put it into your
hand.

[Page 7]
7
Players can play Dominion with any set of 10 Kingdom cards, but these sets have been specially picked out to be
entertaining and show off card interactions and strategies.
Intrigue only:
Victory Dance: Baron, Courtier, Duke, Harem, Ironworks, Masquerade, Mill, Nobles, Patrol, Replace
The Plot Thickens: Conspirator, Ironworks, Lurker, Pawn, Mining Village, Secret Passage, Steward, Swindler, Torturer,
Trading Post
Best Wishes: Baron, Conspirator, Courtyard, Diplomat, Duke, Secret Passage, Shanty Town, Torturer, Upgrade,
Wishing Well
Intrigue & Dominion:
Underlings: Courtier, Diplomat, Minion, Nobles, Pawn • Cellar, Festival, Library, Sentry, Vassal
Grand Scheme: Bridge, Mill, Mining Village, Patrol, Shanty Town • Artisan, Council Room, Market, Militia, Workshop
Deconstruction: Diplomat, Harem, Lurker, Replace, Swindler • Bandit, Mine, Remodel, Throne Room, Village
Intrigue & Seaside:
A Star to Steer By: Secret Passage, Diplomat, Swindler, Wishing Well, Courtier • Lookout, Treasure Map, Ghost Ship,
Haven, Outpost
Shore Patrol: Patrol, Replace, Shanty Town, Trading Post, Pawn • Island, Wharf, Cutpurse, Lighthouse, Warehouse
Bridge Crossing: Lurker, Nobles, Duke, Conspirator, Bridge • Salvager, Embargo, Smugglers, Native Village, Treasury
Intrigue & Alchemy:
Servants: Conspirator, Mill, Minion, Pawn, Steward • Golem, Possession, Scrying Pool, Transmute, Vineyard
Secret Research: Bridge, Masquerade, Minion, Nobles, Shanty Town, Torturer • Familiar, Herbalist, Philosopher's Stone,
University
Pools, Tools, and Fools: Baron, Ironworks, Lurker, Nobles, Trading Post, Wishing Well • Apothecary, Apprentice, Golem,
Scrying Pool
Intrigue & Prosperity:
Paths to Victory: Baron, Harem, Pawn, Shanty Town, Upgrade • Bishop, Counting House, Goons, Monument, Peddler
All Along the Watchtower: Bridge, Mill, Mining Village, Pawn, Torturer • Hoard, Talisman, Trade Route, Vault,
Watchtower
Lucky Seven: Bridge, Lurker, Patrol, Swindler, Wishing Well • Bank, Expand, Forge, King's Court, Vault
Intrigue & Cornucopia/Guilds:
Last Laughs: Minion, Nobles, Pawn, Steward, Swindler • Farming Village, Harvest, Horse Traders, Hunting Party, Jester
The Spice of Life: Courtier, Courtyard, Diplomat, Mining Village, Replace • Fairgrounds, Horn of Plenty, Remake,
Tournament, Young Witch • Bane: Wishing Well
Small Victories: Conspirator, Duke, Harem, Pawn, Secret Passage • Fortune Teller, Hamlet, Hunting Party, Remake,
Tournament
Name that Card: Courtyard, Harem, Nobles, Replace, Wishing Well • Baker, Doctor, Plaza, Advisor, Masterpiece
Tricks of the Trade: Conspirator, Masquerade, Mill, Nobles, Secret Passage • Stonemason, Herald, Soothsayer,
Journeyman, Butcher
Decisions, Decisions: Bridge, Pawn, Mining Village, Upgrade, Duke • Merchant Guild, Candlestick Maker, Masterpiece,
Taxman, Butcher

[Page 8]
Intrigue & Hinterlands:
Money for Nothing: Replace, Patrol, Pawn, Shanty Town, Torturer • Cache, Cartographer, Jack of All Trades, Silk Road,
Tunnel
The Duke's Ball: Conspirator, Duke, Harem, Masquerade, Upgrade • Duchess, Haggler, Inn, Noble Brigand, Scheme
Intrigue & Dark Ages:
Prophecy: Baron, Conspirator, Nobles, Secret Passage, Wishing Well • Armory, Ironmonger, Mystic, Rebuild, Vagrant
Invasion: Diplomat, Harem, Swindler, Torturer, Upgrade • Beggar, Marauder, Rogue, Squire, Urchin
Intrigue & Adventures:
Royalty Factory: Pilgrimage • Conspirator, Courtier, Harem, Nobles, Swindler • Bridge Troll, Duplicate, Page, Raze,
Royal Carriage
Masters of Finance: Ball, Borrow • Bridge, Pawn, Shanty Town, Steward, Upgrade • Artificer, Distant Lands, Gear,
Transmogrify, Wine Merchant
Intrigue & Empires:
Delicious Torture: Arena, Banquet • Baron, Bridge, Harem, Ironworks, Torturer • Castles, Crown, Enchantress, Sacrifice,
Settlers/Bustling Village
Buddy System: Salt the Earth, Wolf Den • Masquerade, Mining Village, Nobles, Pawn, Trading Post • Archive, Capital,
Catapult/Rocks, Engineer, Forum
Intrigue & Nocturne:
Shadowy Figures: Bridge, Conspirator, Mill, Nobles, Secret Passage •Cobbler, Conclave, Faithful Hound, Shepherd, Tragic
Hero
Impending Doom: Courtier, Lurker, Mining Village, Swindler, Upgrade • Leprechaun, Monastery, Necromancer,
Tormentor, Werewolf
Intrigue & Renaissance:
Memento Mori: Citadel • Ironworks, Lurker, Patrol, Swindler, Upgrade • Experiment, Flag Bearer, Patron, Recruiter,
Silk Merchant
Clockwork Court: Fleet, Sinister Plot • Courtier, Mining Village, Nobles, Replace, Steward • Acting Troupe, Inventor,
Research, Scepter, Scholar
Thanks
1st Edition Developers: Dale Yu and Valerie Putman
1st Edition Playtesters: Ted Alspach, Kelly Bailey, Dan Brees, Josephine Burns, Max Crowe, Ray Dennis, David Fair,
Lucas Hedgren, Michael M. Landers, W. Eric Martin, Destry Miller, Miikka Notkola, Molly Sherwin, Sir Shufflesalot,
P. Colin Street, John Vogel, Chris West, the 6am Gamers, the Cincygamers, and the Columbus Area Boardgaming Society.
2nd Edition Playtesters: Tyler Babcock, Jeff Boschen, Kent Bunn, Josephine Burns, Bryan Doughty, Matthew Engel,
Dibson T Hoffweiler, Jen Huang, Destry Miller, Kevin White, and Jeff Wolfe.
© 2009, 2016, 2019 Rio Grande Games; All Rights Reserved
If you have any comments, questions, or suggestions,
please contact us at: PO Box 1033, Placitas, NM 87043, USA
or by email at: RioGames@aol.com
Please visit our web site at www.riograndegames.com
8

[Page 9]
Text version: card costs and coin amounts
Dominion: Intrigue (Second Edition)
Transcribed by hand. The printed book before these pages shows costs, coin amounts and victory points as pictures,
which its text leaves out, so these pages write them out: $3 is a coin with 3 on it, $ alone is the coin symbol, VP is the
victory point symbol, and --- is the line across a card. Pages 1 to 8 are the publisher's book, unchanged.
THE CARDS
Each card's name, cost and types, then its text as printed.
Baron ($4) - Action
+1 Buy
You may discard an Estate for +$4. If you don't, gain an Estate.
Bridge ($4) - Action
+1 Buy
+$1
This turn, cards (everywhere) cost $1 less, but not less than $0.
Conspirator ($4) - Action
+$2
If you've played 3 or more Actions this turn (counting this), +1 Card and +1 Action.
Courtier ($5) - Action
Reveal a card from your hand. For each type it has (Action, Attack, etc.), choose one: +1 Action; or +1 Buy; or +$3; or
gain a Gold. The choices must be different.
Courtyard ($2) - Action
+3 Cards
Put a card from your hand onto your deck.
Diplomat ($4) - Action - Reaction
+2 Cards
If you have 5 or fewer cards in hand (after drawing), +2 Actions.
---
When another player plays an Attack card, you may first reveal this from a hand of 5 or more cards, to draw 2 cards
then discard 3.
Duke ($5) - Victory
Worth 1 VP per Duchy you have.
Harem ($6) - Treasure - Victory
$2
---
2 VP
Ironworks ($4) - Action
Gain a card costing up to $4.
If the gained card is an...
Action card, +1 Action
Treasure card, +$1
Victory card, +1 Card

[Page 10]
Lurker ($2) - Action
+1 Action
Choose one: Trash an Action card from the Supply; or gain an Action card from the trash.
Masquerade ($3) - Action
+2 Cards
Each player with any cards in hand passes one to the next such player to their left, at once. Then you may trash a card
from your hand.
Mill ($4) - Action - Victory
+1 Card
+1 Action
You may discard 2 cards, for +$2.
---
1 VP
Mining Village ($4) - Action
+1 Card
+2 Actions
You may trash this for +$2.
Minion ($5) - Action - Attack
+1 Action
Choose one: +$2; or discard your hand, +4 Cards, and each other player with at least 5 cards in hand discards their
hand and draws 4 cards.
Nobles ($6) - Action - Victory
Choose one: +3 Cards; or +2 Actions.
---
2 VP
Patrol ($5) - Action
+3 Cards
Reveal the top 4 cards of your deck. Put the Victory cards and Curses into your hand. Put the rest back in any order.
Pawn ($2) - Action
Choose two: +1 Card; +1 Action; +1 Buy; +$1.
The choices must be different.
Replace ($5) - Action - Attack
Trash a card from your hand. Gain a card costing up to $2 more than it. If the gained card is an Action or Treasure, put
it onto your deck; if it's a Victory card, each other player gains a Curse.
Secret Passage ($4) - Action
+2 Cards
+1 Action
Take a card from your hand and put it anywhere in your deck.
Shanty Town ($3) - Action
+2 Actions
Reveal your hand. If you have no Action cards in hand, +2 Cards.
Steward ($3) - Action
Choose one: +2 Cards; or +$2; or trash 2 cards from your hand.
Swindler ($3) - Action - Attack
+$2
Each other player trashes the top card of their deck and gains a card with the same cost that you choose.

[Page 11]
Torturer ($5) - Action - Attack
+3 Cards
Each other player either discards 2 cards or gains a Curse to their hand, their choice. (They may pick an option they
can't do.)
Trading Post ($5) - Action
Trash 2 cards from your hand. If you did, gain a Silver to your hand.
Upgrade ($5) - Action
+1 Card
+1 Action
Trash a card from your hand. Gain a card costing exactly $1 more than it.
Wishing Well ($3) - Action
+1 Card
+1 Action
Name a card, then reveal the top card of your deck. If you named it, put it into your hand.
SENTENCES WITH COIN AMOUNTS
Sentences from the book with their coin pictures written out. Each is followed by the page it is printed on.
Sometimes one of the options of a card with a choice is to make +$. To track the $, players can push the card up
slightly from the line of played cards. (p. 2)
She plays Pawn, choosing +1 Card and +$1. (p. 3)
Molly plays her last Shanty Town for +2 Actions, revealing her hand with Actions, and plays the two Bridges, getting
+$2 and +2 Buys. (p. 3)
She has $9 and 3 Buys (her normal Buy plus the 2 from the Bridges). (p. 3)
Cards cost $2 less due to the Bridges. (p. 3)
She buys two Torturers for $3 each, and a Mining Village for $2. (p. 3)
She has $1 left but no more Buys. (p. 3)
Bridge: All cards, including cards in the Supply, in play, in decks, and in hands, cost $1 less for the rest of this turn, but
not less than $0. (p. 4)
Bridge: For example after playing Bridge, you could buy a Gold with $5, since Gold only costs $5; you could Upgrade
Copper to Estate, since Copper still costs $0, but Estate costs $1; you could use Ironworks to gain a Duchy, since
Duchy only costs $4. (p. 4)
Bridge: This is cumulative; if you play two Bridges (or the same Bridge twice via Throne Room), cards will cost $2 less.
(p. 4)
Conspirator: For example if you start a turn with Throne Room on a Conspirator, you get +$2 for the first play of
Conspirator, but +$2 +1 Card +1 Action for the second play of Conspirator. (p. 4)
Courtier: For example you could reveal a Copper and choose "gain a Gold," or reveal a Mill and choose "+1 Action"
and "+$3." (p. 4)
Mill: You can choose to discard 2 cards even if you only have one card in hand, but you only get +$2 if you actually
discarded 2 cards. (p. 5)
Mining Village: First draw a card and get +2 Actions; then choose whether or not to trash Mining Village, getting +$2 if
you did. (p. 5)
Mining Village: If you Throne Room a Mining Village, you cannot trash it twice (and so cannot get the +$2 twice). (p. 5)
Replace: Like Remodel, you first trash a card from your hand, then gain a card from the Supply costing up to $2 more
than the trashed card, putting the gained card into your discard pile. (p. 5)

[Page 12]
Swindler: For example if a player trashed Copper, you might give them Curse, which costs $0 like Copper does. (p. 6)
Upgrade: First draw a card and get +1 Action; then trash a card from your hand; then gain a card costing exactly $1
more than the trashed card. (p. 6)
Upgrade: If there is no card available at that cost, you do not gain a card; for example if you play Upgrade and trash a
Copper, in a game with nothing costing $1, you simply fail to gain a card. (p. 6)
SENTENCES WITH VICTORY POINTS
Sentences from the book with their victory point pictures written out, each followed by its page.
For example, since Nobles is an Action card, it can be played in the Action phase, can be trashed from the Supply with
Lurker, and so on; since it is a Victory card, it is worth VP when scoring, is put into a player's hand due to Patrol, and so
on. (p. 2)
Duke: For example, if you have five Duchies, then each of your Dukes is worth 5 VP. (p. 4)
Harem: This can be played in your Buy phase like other Treasures, and is worth 2 VP at the end of the game. (p. 5)