

Hey girl hey. Welcome to your guide for the night. The first
thing we want to stress is that this is a JUDGEMENT-FREE
zone. We’re all a little freaky, so let your guard down and roll
your sleeves up because y’all are in for a wild night...now grab
a seat at the table and lean the fuck in because it’s time to get
messy...
Hey girl hey. Welcome to your guide for the night. The first
thing we want to stress is that this is a JUDGEMENT-FREE
zone. We’re all a little freaky, so let your guard down and roll
Whoever has most Instagram followers goes first, rolling
the die. Each side of the die shows a color that matches
the category of cards from the 5 decks. Whichever side of
the die lands face-up, take the top card from that deck
(i.e. if the die lands on the pink side, take the top card from
the pink “Truth or Dare” deck).
®
TRUTH - Answer truthfully and keep
the card. If the question is too savage
for you to answer, put the card at the
bottom of the stack.
Quickly name something within the
category. The person to your left then
names something else, and so on. The
first player to hesitate (more than 10
seconds), repeat an answer, or
otherwise fuck up is out. Keep playing
until one person is left. That person
keeps the card.
GIVE the card to whichever player it
best describes.
Example: If the card reads, “Who
is the worst cook?” give the card to
the player who can’t boil a pot of water
without burning the house down.
GIVE the card to whichever player is
most likely to do that thing.
Example: If the card is, “MLT cut her
own bangs” and Isabel is definitely the
most likely to cut her own bangs, give
Isabel the card and then have an
intervention because that is never okay.
Keep playing until your Uber is outside or until
someone collects 25 cards. At the end of the game, whoever
has the most cards is the winner and should be treated like
an absolute queen for the remainder of the night. Slay, girl.
DARE - Perform the dare and keep the
card. If you’re just getting warmed up or
are embarrassed for some reason, put
the card at the bottom of the stack.