[Page 1]


[Page 2]


[Page 3]
Text version
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Battle
The Monster Box of Monsters Expansion
Transcribed from the rule sheets in the four expansion boxes. Icons are written as words: [Attack] is the lightning
bolt, [Influence] the gold token, [Health] the heart.
BOX 3
OBJECT
As in previous games, complete all the Encounters and defeat the Villains and Creatures before they gain control
of all the Locations.
CONTENTS AND SET UP
- 3 Location cards (1): Use only the Box 3 Locations. Stack in order.
- 8 Dark Arts cards (2): Shuffle all Dark Arts cards together.
- 3 Encounter cards (3): Use only the Box 3 Encounters. Stack in order.
- 4 Creature cards (4): Shuffle the included cards with DOLORES UMBRIDGE and 7 other randomly selected
Villains/Creatures to create the stack. Place the Game 7 LORD VOLDEMORT face up on the bottom of the stack.
- 8 HOGWARTS cards (5): Shuffle all HOGWARTS cards together.
- 5 Patronus cards (6) (NEW, see below): These cards are Hero specific and replace a Proficiency card above
your player board.
Distribute cards as in previous games.
HERO SET UP
Similar to starting cards, Patronus cards are Hero specific, as seen on the banner in the middle of the card (for
example, the Otter Patronus is marked "Hermione's Ability": "Once per turn, you may discard 1 [Influence] to
reveal the top card of your deck. If the card is a Spell, draw it and gain 1 [Attack].").
Place your Hero card and associated Patronus above your player board. Note: If you prefer, you may choose a
Proficiency instead of using your Patronus, but you may not have both.
HARRY'S PATRONUS
Harry's Patronus (the Stag, "Harry's Ability": "When another Hero would be Stunned, you may discard a Spell
and lose 2 [Health]. If you do, instead of being Stunned, set that Hero's [Health] to 2 and that Hero cannot lose
any more [Health] this turn.") is to protect another Hero from being stunned. Once that Hero has set their [Health]
to 2, they cannot willingly choose to lose any more [Health] on that turn.
For example, if Harry protected the active Hero from being stunned to a Dark Arts event, that Hero would have to
discard a Spell to the Centaur (Creature, health 7: "Active Hero chooses one: Lose 2 [Health]; or discard a Spell."
Reward: "ALL Heroes may search their discard pile for a Spell and put it in their hand. Remove 1 Villain control
token from the Location.") because if given an option, they cannot choose to lose [Health] for the rest of their
turn.
GAMEPLAY
Gameplay proceeds with the same four steps from previous games.
STEP 1. Reveal and resolve Dark Arts events and the Encounter.

[Page 4]
The first Encounter requires dice rolls to complete. Both Ron's and Luna's Patronus cards allow them to roll dice
without the use of a HOGWARTS card. However, if Luna is forced to discard a card to another card effect, and
she chooses a Spell, it does not allow her to roll the Ravenclaw (blue) die.
STEP 2. Resolve Creature and Villain abilities.
STEP 3. Play HOGWARTS cards and take Hero actions.
STEP 4. End your turn.
END OF GAME
- ALL the Villains and Creatures are defeated: Heroes win! Congratulations, you are a Care of Magical Creatures
expert! Open Box 4, and follow the rules enclosed.
- Villains and Creatures control ALL the Locations: Heroes lose! It's time to serve detention. Reset the game to its
starting configuration, and try again!