

























Text version
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Battle
The Monster Box of Monsters Expansion
A Cooperative Deck-Building Game. 2-4 players, ages 11+.
Transcribed from the rule sheets in the four expansion boxes. Icons are written as words: [Attack] is the lightning
bolt, [Influence] the gold token, [Health] the heart.
BOX 1
OVERVIEW
In this expansion to HARRY POTTER: HOGWARTS BATTLE, you will take on the role of Hero with Harry, Ron,
Hermione, Neville or new playable character, Luna Lovegood, as they venture into the Forbidden Forest. This
game is designed to be played over a series of four increasingly challenging adventures.
OBJECTIVE
Playing cooperatively as the Heroes, you win the game if you complete the Encounters and defeat the Villains
and Creatures before they gain control of all the Locations.
INCORPORATING CARDS
This game will play best if you combine it with all the HOGWARTS BATTLE game content after you complete
Game 7.
Contents: Set Up (p. 2), Gameplay (p. 4), Additional Rules (p. 5).
SET UP
Use these contents: Box 1, 12 Influence Tokens and 1 Harp Token.
Leave in box: Boxes 2-4, 17 Sorting Cards.
Sort and distribute Box 1 cards:
- 3 Locations (1): Use the Box 1 Locations. Stack face up in order.
- 8 Dark Arts (2): Shuffle these cards together with the original Dark Arts cards.
- 3 Encounters (3) (NEW, see next page): Stack in order face up in the center of the game board.
- 4 Creatures and 2 Villain-Creature cards (4) (NEW, see below): Shuffle together with 5 randomly chosen Villain
cards from HARRY POTTER: HOGWARTS BATTLE. Place the Game 5 LORD VOLDEMORT face up on the
bottom of the stack. Reveal the top three cards.
- 13 HOGWARTS cards and 20 Detention! cards (5) (NEW): Shuffle the 13 HOGWARTS cards with the original
HOGWARTS BATTLE cards. Place the 20 Detention! cards in a separate stack near the game board.
- 5 Hero cards and 1 Game 6 Proficiency (6): Place your Hero card and chosen Proficiency card above your
player board.
- 1 Starting Hero deck of 10 cards for Luna Lovegood (7) (NEW).
INFORMATION ON CREATURE CARDS
Example: FLUFFY, Creature, Box 1. Ability: "For each Item in hand active Hero chooses one: Lose 1 [Health]; or
discard a card." Reward: "All Heroes gain 1 [Health] and draw a card." Health 8.

1. Creature Name.
2. Box Identifier.
3. Creature Ability.
4. Health: the number of [Attack] (or [Influence]) that are needed to defeat the Creature.
5. Reward: earned when the Creature is defeated.
6. Dragon Symbol: on the corner of all Expansion cards.
INFORMATION ON ENCOUNTER CARDS
Example: PESKIPIKSI PESTERNOMI!, Box 1, 1 of 3, Encounter - Cornish Pixies. Effect: "At the end of each turn,
if active Hero has 4 [Health] or less, they only draw four cards (instead of five)." To complete: "Play two cards with
an EVEN [Influence] value in one turn." Reward: "Each time you play a card with an EVEN [Influence] value, any
one Hero gains 1 [Health]."
1. Encounter Name.
2. Box Identifier and Order.
3. Associated Creature(s): Creature(s) listed must be shuffled into the Villain stack as part of setup.
4. Encounter Effect.
5. To Complete: the requirement needed to complete the Encounter.
6. Reward: bonus for the active Hero when an Encounter is completed.
Many of the Encounters require playing or acquiring cards to complete. If you meet the requirement, you may
collect the card at the end of your turn. On subsequent turns you will be able to use the reward. Note: Even if the
reward says "Once per game...," you may still only use the reward on your turn.
GAMEPLAY
Each turn consists of four steps.
STEP 1. Reveal and resolve Dark Arts events and the Encounter.
Each Encounter has a game play effect that will trigger when certain conditions are met. Check for this after
resolving Dark Arts events.
STEP 2. Resolve Villain and Creature abilities.
Some of the Encounters will be triggered during this step.
STEP 3. Play HOGWARTS cards and take Hero actions.
- Play cards to gain resources and generate effects.
Banish Cards: A new term introduced on some cards is "banish." When a Hero banishes a card, it is removed
from their deck for the rest of the game. If the card is Detention!, return it to the Detention! stack. Otherwise place
the card in the discard pile in the center of the game board. Cards can either be played for their effect or
banished, but not both.
- Assign [Attack] and/or [Influence] to Villains and Creatures.
A new mechanic introduced on some Creature cards requires using [Influence] to defeat them. Unlike [Attack],
only one [Influence] can be placed on a Creature each turn. For example, Norbert (health 6, defeated with
[Influence]) will take at least six turns to defeat.
- Use [Influence] to acquire new cards.
You may not use the [Influence] assigned to Creatures to also acquire HOGWARTS cards.

STEP 4. End your turn.
The first Encounter, Peskipiksi Pesternomi, limits the number of cards a Hero can draw at the end of their turn, if
they have 4 [Health] or less. However, if the active Hero was stunned, their Health would first reset to 10 and then
they would be able to draw a new hand of five cards.
COMPLETING AN ENCOUNTER
Before replacing cards at the end of turn, check to see if you completed the Encounter. If you did, claim the card.
You may use the reward on a subsequent turn.
LORD VOLDEMORT
As in previous games, LORD VOLDEMORT cannot be assigned [Attack] immediately. You will need to complete
ALL the Encounters and defeat ALL other Villains and Creatures before assigning any [Attack] to LORD
VOLDEMORT.
END OF GAME
The game can end in one of two ways:
- The Encounters are completed and ALL the Creatures and Villains are defeated: Heroes win! Congratulations,
your magical education is progressing. Proceed to Box 2 and follow the rules enclosed.
- Villains and Creatures control ALL the Locations: Heroes lose! The Creatures have shown their teeth. You are
not yet ready to move on to Box 2. Reset the game to its starting configuration and try again.
ADDITIONAL RULES
VILLAINS VS. CREATURES
At the top of the cards is an identifier: Villain, Creature, or Villain-Creature. This identifier will affect the abilities on
certain cards. For example, Harry's Firebolt will not give a reward if he defeats a Creature. Conversely, the Death
Eaters will not cause the Heroes to lose 1 [Health] if a Creature is revealed. Note: Included in Box 1 are two
Villain-Creature cards, for the Basilisk (Game 2) and Dementor (Game 3). These replace their Villain cards from
the HOGWARTS BATTLE game, and they now count as both a Villain AND a Creature!
ENCOUNTERS
When setting up any game from the Monster Box of Monsters expansion, first select the Creatures (and Villains)
referenced at the top of the Encounter cards. You will shuffle these together with a randomly chosen set of
Villains and/or Creatures to bring the total number of cards in the stack to twelve, including a LORD
VOLDEMORT card.
BANISHING
In ALL instances, either from rewards for defeating Creatures or playing HOGWARTS cards, banishing a card is
optional. When a Detention! is banished, place it back on the Detention! card stack.
DETENTION!
Occasionally the Heroes may acquire Detention! cards. Like starting cards, Detention! cards have no value.
These cards have no effect when in your hand. However, if you discard Detention! to a Dark Arts event, Villain or
Creature ability or even a HOGWARTS card, immediately lose 2 [Health]. Banishing a Detention! card will not
cause you to lose 2 [Health], nor will placing the unplayed card in your discard pile at the end of your turn.
NEW HERO CARDS
Included in Box 1 are new Hero cards, which you may choose to use instead of the HOGWARTS BATTLE Game
7 Hero cards.

LUNA LOVEGOOD CARDS
Luna's Items play a little differently. The Spectrespecs allows you to peek at the top Dark Arts event card and
choose whether or not to discard it, so that it won't be resolved on the next Hero's turn. The Lion Hat works in
conjunction with brooms (a Firebolt, Cleansweep, or Nimbus) or Quidditch Gear in another Hero's hand.
Note: If you choose Luna as a Hero, remove her Ally card from the HOGWARTS deck. Remember, this is still a
four player game, so one of the Heroes will have to sit out each adventure.
HOGWARTS CARDS
As an optional rule, once per game, any one Hero may forgo acquiring cards to place ALL six available cards on
the bottom of the HOGWARTS stack. Replace them with six new cards. This is helpful if you find you are stuck on
an Encounter or cannot acquire cards that are too expensive.
ADVANCED WIZARDS
You can increase the difficulty of any game by increasing the number of Creatures and Villains in the stack by two
or three. Or start the game with 1 or 2 Villain control tokens on the first Location.
Contents of the expansion: 152 cards (40 small, 68 regular, 44 oversized), 1 die, 4 game boxes, 4 game rules, 21
chip pieces (12 Influence, 1 Harp, 8 more). Designed and developed by USAopoly; invented by Forrest-Pruzan
Creative.
BOX 2
OBJECT
As in Box 1, complete all the Encounters and defeat the Villains and Creatures before they gain control of all the
Locations.
CONTENTS AND SET UP
- 3 Location cards (1): Use only the Box 2 Locations. Stack in order.
- 7 Dark Arts cards (2): Shuffle all Dark Arts cards together.
- 3 Encounter cards (3): Use only the Box 2 Encounters. Stack in order.
- 3 Creature cards (4): Shuffle these cards with Peter Pettigrew, Fenrir Greyback and 6 other randomly selected
Villains/Creatures to create the stack. Place the Game 6 LORD VOLDEMORT face up on the bottom.
- 9 HOGWARTS cards (5): Shuffle all HOGWARTS cards together.
- 1 Creature Die (NEW, see below).
- 8 Reminder tokens (NEW): Carefully punch out, then recycle the waste. Place near game board.
Distribute cards on game board as in previous games.
CREATURE DIE
Some of the Creature rewards and HOGWARTS cards will let you roll the Creature Die. Your die roll generates
one of six effects that benefit Heroes as follows:
- One heart: ALL Heroes gain 1 [Health].
- Two hearts: ALL Heroes gain 2 [Health].
- Lightning bolt: ALL Heroes gain 1 [Attack].
- One card: ALL Heroes draw a card.
- Two cards: ALL Heroes draw two cards.

- Villain control token (skull): Remove 1 Villain control token from the Location.
The Creature Die symbol on a card is a red phoenix crest.
HERO SET UP
Place your Hero card and chosen Game 6 Proficiency above your player board. Remember, you do not get to
start with any of the additional HOGWARTS cards you acquired from previous games.
GAMEPLAY
Gameplay proceeds with the same four steps from Box 1.
STEP 1. Reveal and resolve Dark Arts events and the Encounter.
Careful, the second Encounter effect will trigger every time a Villain control token is added.
STEP 2. Resolve Creature and Villain abilities.
Note: If you roll a one-heart or two-heart result, the Boggart will remove [Attack] and/or [Influence] from ALL
Creatures, including itself.
STEP 3. Play HOGWARTS cards and take Hero actions.
The BOGGART and WEREWOLF require Heroes to assign both [Attack] and [Influence] to defeat them. Note: a
maximum of 1 [Influence] can be assigned to each Creature on your turn.
STEP 4. End your turn.
Remember to check if you completed the Encounter. Also, don't forget, you may place any Detention! cards in
your discard pile with no penalty at this time.
END OF GAME
- ALL the Villains and Creatures are defeated: Heroes win! Congratulations on your stellar wand work! Open Box
3, and follow the rules enclosed.
- Villains and Creatures control ALL of the Locations: Heroes lose! You have some studying to do. Reset the
game to its starting configuration and try again!
BOX 3
OBJECT
As in previous games, complete all the Encounters and defeat the Villains and Creatures before they gain control
of all the Locations.
CONTENTS AND SET UP
- 3 Location cards (1): Use only the Box 3 Locations. Stack in order.
- 8 Dark Arts cards (2): Shuffle all Dark Arts cards together.
- 3 Encounter cards (3): Use only the Box 3 Encounters. Stack in order.
- 4 Creature cards (4): Shuffle the included cards with DOLORES UMBRIDGE and 7 other randomly selected
Villains/Creatures to create the stack. Place the Game 7 LORD VOLDEMORT face up on the bottom of the stack.
- 8 HOGWARTS cards (5): Shuffle all HOGWARTS cards together.
- 5 Patronus cards (6) (NEW, see below): These cards are Hero specific and replace a Proficiency card above
your player board.
Distribute cards as in previous games.

HERO SET UP
Similar to starting cards, Patronus cards are Hero specific, as seen on the banner in the middle of the card (for
example, the Otter Patronus is marked "Hermione's Ability": "Once per turn, you may discard 1 [Influence] to
reveal the top card of your deck. If the card is a Spell, draw it and gain 1 [Attack].").
Place your Hero card and associated Patronus above your player board. Note: If you prefer, you may choose a
Proficiency instead of using your Patronus, but you may not have both.
HARRY'S PATRONUS
Harry's Patronus (the Stag, "Harry's Ability": "When another Hero would be Stunned, you may discard a Spell
and lose 2 [Health]. If you do, instead of being Stunned, set that Hero's [Health] to 2 and that Hero cannot lose
any more [Health] this turn.") is to protect another Hero from being stunned. Once that Hero has set their [Health]
to 2, they cannot willingly choose to lose any more [Health] on that turn.
For example, if Harry protected the active Hero from being stunned to a Dark Arts event, that Hero would have to
discard a Spell to the Centaur (Creature, health 7: "Active Hero chooses one: Lose 2 [Health]; or discard a Spell."
Reward: "ALL Heroes may search their discard pile for a Spell and put it in their hand. Remove 1 Villain control
token from the Location.") because if given an option, they cannot choose to lose [Health] for the rest of their
turn.
GAMEPLAY
Gameplay proceeds with the same four steps from previous games.
STEP 1. Reveal and resolve Dark Arts events and the Encounter.
The first Encounter requires dice rolls to complete. Both Ron's and Luna's Patronus cards allow them to roll dice
without the use of a HOGWARTS card. However, if Luna is forced to discard a card to another card effect, and
she chooses a Spell, it does not allow her to roll the Ravenclaw (blue) die.
STEP 2. Resolve Creature and Villain abilities.
STEP 3. Play HOGWARTS cards and take Hero actions.
STEP 4. End your turn.
END OF GAME
- ALL the Villains and Creatures are defeated: Heroes win! Congratulations, you are a Care of Magical Creatures
expert! Open Box 4, and follow the rules enclosed.
- Villains and Creatures control ALL the Locations: Heroes lose! It's time to serve detention. Reset the game to its
starting configuration, and try again!
BOX 4
OBJECT
As in previous games, complete all the Encounters and defeat the Creatures, Villains and LORD VOLDEMORT
before they gain control of all the Locations.
CONTENTS AND SET UP
- 4 Location cards (1): Use only the Box 4 Locations. Stack in order.
- 5 Dark Arts cards (2): Shuffle all Dark Arts cards together.
- 3 Encounter cards (3): Stack in order.
- 1 LORD VOLDEMORT card (4) (NEW): This replaces the Games 5, 6, and 7 LORD VOLDEMORT cards. Place

face up on the bottom of the Villain/Creature stack.
The Box 4 LORD VOLDEMORT (Villain): "Active Hero loses 2 [Health]. Add 1 Villain control token to the Location.
Each time a Hero is stunned, add 1 additional Villain control token to the Location. May not be assigned [Attack]
or [Influence] until all other Creatures and Villains are defeated." Reward: "Heroes win!" He takes 7 [Influence]
and 25 [Attack] to defeat.
- 6 Creature cards (4): Shuffle the included cards with 8 other randomly selected Villains/Creatures to create the
stack.
- 8 HOGWARTS cards (5): Shuffle all HOGWARTS cards together.
Distribute cards on game board as in previous games.
PREPARE YOUR HERO
Choose your Hero. Select a Proficiency or your associated Patronus, but not both. Take your 10 card deck and
prepare for the battle.
GAMEPLAY
Gameplay proceeds with the same four steps from previous games.
STEP 1. Reveal and resolve Dark Arts events and the Encounter.
STEP 2. Resolve Villain and Creature abilities.
Just as only one [Influence] can be assigned to each Creature on a turn, the same is true for LORD
VOLDEMORT. It will take at least seven turns to defeat LORD VOLDEMORT, once he can be assigned
[Influence] and [Attack].
STEP 3. Play HOGWARTS cards and take Hero actions.
STEP 4. End your turn.
END OF GAME
- ALL the Villains and Creatures are defeated: Heroes win! Congratulations! Flip the page over for tips on how to
set up future games.
- Villains and Creatures control ALL the Locations: Heroes lose! LORD VOLDEMORT gained control of the
wizarding world. Reset the game to its starting configuration, and try again!
REPLAYING HOGWARTS BATTLE WITH THE MONSTER BOX OF MONSTERS EXPANSION
To randomize future games, sort the Encounters from each box into three piles: 1 of 3, 2 of 3, and 3 of 3. Shuffle
and choose one Encounter from each pile. These will be your Encounters for the game.
(Examples shown: The First Unregistered Animagus, Box 1, 1 of 3, Encounter - Scabbers and Peter Pettigrew;
Students Out of Bed, Box 1, 2 of 3, Encounter - Norbert and Troll; Third Floor Corridor, Box 1, 3 of 3, Encounter -
Fluffy.)
To create the 15 card Villain/Creature stack: First select the Creatures and Villains associated with the
Encounters; then shuffle them with additional randomly chosen Villain/Creature cards to equal 14. Finally place
the Box 4 LORD VOLDEMORT on the bottom of the stack face up.
For a more challenging game try increasing the number of cards in the stack by two or three.
To increase the difficulty of any game, start with 1 or 2 Villain control tokens on the first Location or add 1 Villain
control token to each Location when it is revealed.
WANT TO PLAY AN EPIC HARRY POTTER: HOGWARTS BATTLE GAME AGAINST ALL OF THE VILLAINS

AND CREATURES?
You will need Location 1 of 3 (Castle Gates) from Box 1, plus ALL four Locations from Box 4. Stack them in order,
placing Castle Gates on top.
Place three randomly selected Encounters in order on top of ALL of the Horcruxes in the center of the game
board.
Place ALL four LORD VOLDEMORT cards in order (Games 5, 6, 7, and Box 4) on the bottom of the
Villain/Creature stack face up. If you make it to the end, you will face one LORD VOLDEMORT at a time (first
Game 5, then 6, then 7, and finally Box 4). Remember, LORD VOLDEMORT cannot be assigned ATTACK until
after all the Horcruxes are destroyed and all other Villains and Creatures are defeated.
To win, defeat all four versions of LORD VOLDEMORT. Good Luck!