1
You have dared to cross the threshold of the haunted
Mysterium Manor… How very brave! Settle in around
the table, open your mind and awaken your sixth sense
as you prepare for an extraordinary séance with
the aim of laying a stranded soul to rest… Game Rules
Background
5
2

2
Duchy of Warwick, Scotland
September 19th, 1922
Professor Alphonse de Belcour, Poitiers, France
Dearest Alphonse,
Since I last wrote, supernatural events have been occurring at the manor on
a daily basis. In the course of my investigations, I came across a few old
newspaper cuttings mentioning the tragic demise of a man-servant, nigh on
30 years ago. Although the police quickly concluded that the death was
accidental, rumours about the circumstances continued to circulate.
It seems the case was rushed, and I’d bet my last shilling that my ghost
has something to do with this story; sadly, he is unable to manifest in our
world for long enough to communicate. By combining our forces, we might
just be able to give him the energy he needs to deliver his message. I therefore
repeat my invitation: I would be delighted if Alma, Ardhashir, Madam
Wang, Jessalyn and your good self could join me without delay to solve
this mystery.
I look forward to receiving your reply.
Ever yours,

3
TRAGEDY AT THE COUNT
OF WARWICK’S MANOR!
Warwick Evening News14th December, 1894
The Count of Warwick’s manor
was the scene of a terrible tragedy
during the night of Thursday
December 13th. Celebrating his
daughter Margaret’s birthday, the
Count threw a costume party for
around a hundred guests. At one-
thirty in the morning, one of the
man-servants was found lying dead
in as-yet unclear circumstances.
The police arrived at the scene
thirty minutes after the body
was discovered and proceeded
to question the various guests.
Unfortunately, initial interviews
failed to shed any light on this
mysterious case. The police have
now issued a call for witnesses
to
THE INVESTIGATION
STALLS
One month after the crime, the
circumstances surrounding the
death of the Count of Warwick’s man-
servant during the night of December
13th, 1894 remain as murky as ever.
The call for witnesses failed to trace
the deceased’s family. It would
appear that the victim had no close
relations. The police are pursuing
their enquiries, but thus far to no
avail. According to the inspectors,
the most likely explanation is an
unfortunate accident, although
rumours circulating locally allude to
a foul murder in connection with an
affair of loose morals.
WARWICK SERVANT CASE - POLICE
CONSIDER DEATH ACCIDENTAL
After a four-month investigation into the tragic events at
the Count of Warwick’s manor, the police have concluded
that the servant’s death was an accident. Since the
tragedy, the circumstances of the servant’s death have
been the subject of considerable speculation. The case of
the Warwick servant is now officially closed.
COUNT AND COUNTESS OF
WARWICK TO LEAVE THE
REGIONWarwick Evening News13th May, 1895
In a shocking announcement, the
Count has stated his intention to
permanently depart, together with
wife and children, the manor that has
been the family home for generations.
The Count, a strong character known
for his generosity and involvement in
the town affairs, will be sorely missed.
He explained that he and his family
no longer felt at ease following the
tragic events that took place at the
manor five months ago. The house
was immediately put up for sale and
has already found a buyer in clan
MacDowell. This wealthy family
has already purchased a number of
properties in the area.
COUNT AND COUNTESS OF
WARWICK TO LEAVE THE
REGION

4
Conrad Mac Dowell
Speciality: Crystal gazing
Nationality: Scottish
Conrad is a wealthy Scottish nobleman of
clan MacDowell, which traces its ancestry
back through 17 generations. At the age of
18, he inherited his grand-mother Moira’s
crystal ball. Despite a promising academic
record and the prospect of a brilliant
military career, he instead chose a path as
a crystal-gazing clairvoyant. His clientele
includes numerous eminent figures. No doubt
thanks to his second sight, he returned unscathed from the
war in 1918. After this turbulent period, he decided to set
up home in the recently-inherited family manor, where he
immediately felt a strange supernatural presence…
Alphonse de Belcour
Speciality: Numerology
Nationality: French
Alphonse was born into the French aristocracy,
in a family with close ties to clan MacDowell.
Alphonse‘s brother fought and died on the
battlefield at Verdun while Alphonse was at home
studying for a doctorate in mathematics. Shattered
by the news, he sought comfort by throwing
himself into his research, in time realising that
the amazing secret properties of numbers can be
harnessed by those able to interpret them. Alphonse‘s research
into the science of numbers has enabled him to partially decipher
hidden messages embedded in major texts from around the world.
When he presented his thesis, his peers were unanimous: Alphonse
would either revolutionize science or be ridiculed as a crackpot!
He has agreed to travel to the manor out of friendship for Conrad
MacDowell.
Alma Salvador
Speciality: Pendulum divination
Nationality: Spanish
Orphaned as a young child, Alma was taken in
and brought up in a convent. She stumbled upon
her gift at the age of eight, while playing with
a watch chain left behind by an absent-minded
visitor. She subsequently used her talents to
help other orphans find their families. The nuns
learned of her unorthodox activities when she
was 12, and expelled her from the convent for
witchcraft. Thanks to her ability to locate the soul of any human
being she is able to earn a living; she also helps the poor track
down missing relatives. Her charitable nature prompted her to accept
Sir Conrad’s request to help save a lost soul.
Ardhashir
Speciality: Talisman
Nationality: Ottoman
A talent for divination has been passed
down through the generations in Ardhashir‘s
family. The powerful Amajlije talisman,
which has been in the family‘s possession for
centuries, focuses and amplifies their psychic
powers. Although the family has traditionally
served the Sultan, Ardhashir chose a different
path, setting off to explore the wider world.
After spending years travelling and perfecting
his craft, he returned to his home country to practice divination
with the aid of his talisman. He has since earned a considerable
reputation among leaders from all around the world. The air of
mystery surrounding Sir Conrad MacDowell‘s manor was a big
factor in his decision to travel to Scotland.
Jessalyn Smith
Speciality: Tarot reading
Nationality: American
Jessalyn was married at a very young age to a
wealthy and frequently absent factory owner,
and is profoundly bored… At home in Rochester,
New York, she would regularly read the tarot
cards with friends. When one of her friends lost
her young daughter to pneumonia, she decided
to organise a tarot seance to make contact
with the child‘s spirit. It was then that she
discovered that she was a powerful psychic, and many Rochester
citizens have since sought her help. News of her gift spread,
and before long, people were coming to her from across the
nation to contact dead loved ones. She quite naturally accepted
Sir Conrad MacDowell‘s request for assistance, particularly as
she had always dreamed of visiting Scotland.
Madam Wang
Speciality: I-Ching (bibliomancy)
Nationality: Chinese
Scouted at an early age by a secret
society studying I-Ching, she left her
family to learn to master her gift. She
was then free to devote herself to the
study of this ancient text, progressing
in leaps and bounds. She specialized
in communicating with ancestors and
exploring past lives. In times of
political upheaval in China, leading
figures sought to outdo their rivals with the aid of her
clairvoyancy. Madam Wang tired of seeing her gift used
for political gain and decided to retire and travel China,
helping local people along the way. It was during this
journey that her colleague, Sir Conrad MacDowell, requested
her assistance in solving an old mystery.

5
Aim of the Game
Mysterium is a cooperative mystery solving game, in which everyone wins or loses
together. All players share the same goal of uncovering the truth behind the death of
the ghost that haunts the manor, thereby putting his soul to rest!
Player Roles
Mysterium is an asymmetric card game in which players take on one of two different
roles but share a common purpose. Players play differently according to their role:
The ghost distributes cards to guide the psychics, helping them to make the
right choices that will allow the investigation to make progress.
The psychics receive cards from the ghost and use their intuition to try to
correctly interpret his messages.
Before beginning the game, the players decide which role to play: the ghost or
a psychic.
Example: Laura, Stephanie, Paul, Carl and Alex are beginning a five-player
game. Laura decides to play the role of the ghost. The remaining four players
play as psychics. Stephanie chooses Alphonse de Belcour (blue), Paul picks
Ardhashir (white), Carl selects Madam Wang (red) and Alex opts for Alma
Salvador (yellow).
WHAT TO EXPECT DURING THE SÉANCE…
The game is set in the 1920s. In your role as psychics you have been invited to a night-
time séance on Samhain (Halloween), when the visible and invisible worlds meet. This is
the day of the year when the living are most easily able to contact the "other side". You
will have only seven hours before the spiritual connection with the ghost is lost.
Upon making contact, you quickly realize that the ghost is unable to communicate
his killer’s identity directly. Clearly still in severe shock, the ghost has only vague
memories of his death. With his help, your task is to reconstruct the events of the
fateful evening: who was present at the scene? Where might the crime have taken
place? What objects may have been used as weapons? To save precious time, each
psychic will follow a different line of inquiry, with the aim of
identifying and reconstructing the activities of one of the
suspects.
Exhausted by his years wandering the astral plane, the
ghost has become too weak to speak.
Instead, he will communicate with the psychics individually, sending them visions in
the form of "flashes", which the psychics will then share and interpret to the best of
their ability with their partners. Guided by their intuition, they will then indicate their
preferred hypothesis to the ghost, beginning by identifying the suspects. In return,
the ghost will inform each psychic whether or not their intuitions were
accurate, enabling the most perceptive among them to move forward
with their investigation. When the suspect has been unmasked, the
psychic’s next task is to determine where the crime took place and
what object may have served as the murder weapon.
If all the psychics successfully complete their tasks within the
allotted seven hours, the ghost will be able to recall the culprit’s
identity. Summoning his remaining strength, he will send the
whole group one final vision identifying the culprit. The more
clear-sighted the psychics have been during the séance, the more
unequivocal this final vision will be…
Finally, the psychics hold a straw poll to formally identify
the culprit, winning the game if the majority pick the right
suspect. This frees the ghost’s soul to rest in eternal peace.
If you fail, the ghost’s spirit will continue to roam the
netherworld and you will have to wait another year
before reattempting to solve the mystery of the
manor…
Now you know how the séance will unfold,
you are ready to play!
Tips for a strong spirit bond:
For your first game, we recommend playing at the EASY difficulty level
(see page 8), with a player already familiar with the game in the role of
the ghost.
The ghost may choose to play the game without uttering a single word.
For example, he might confirm the psychics’ intuitions by knocking on
the table: one knock for «yes», two knocks for «no».
An atmospheric soundtrack is available to download
from www.libellud.com (via the Mysterium product
sheet) or by scanning the code shown opposite with
your smartphone.

6
Game Components & SetupSet up the game as shown in the diagram.
1
1
18 character psychic cards
rear numbered from 1 to 18
REAR
19
19
18 location psychic cards
rear numbered from 19 to 36
REAR
37
37
18 object psychic cards
rear numbered from 37 to 54
REAR
5 6 7
54 psychic cards
1 location
progress board
1 character
progress board4 progress boards 1 object progress
board 1 epilogue progress
board
1 culprit space
2 mission accomplished space
1
2
1
6 75
2
3
4
1 clock board
Setup
Set the hour hand to I (1h)
at the start of the game.
1 clock
2 clairvoyancy tokens
discard area
1
2
36 clairvoyancy tokens
6 of each colour
Front or
Rear numbered from 1 to 6
4 Setup Each psychic receives:
1 intuition token
1 sleeve
1 clairvoyancy level marker. Place the marker so that
it indicates the "0" space on the clairvoyancy track.
Clairvoyancy tokens, depending on the number of
players:
2-3 players 0
4-5 players 4 (numbered from 1 to 4)
6-7 players 6 (numbered from 1 to 6)
Game components for the psychics
6 sleeves
1 of each colour
2 6 clairvoyancy
level markers
1 of each colour
3
6 intuition
tokens
1 of each colour
1
P.8Setup
P.9Use
P.8Use
P.10Use P.10Use
P.10Use
P.10Use
P.10Use
P.12Use

7
1 game screen
Each column corresponds to a different psychic.
Each row corresponds to a type of ghost card:
1 character ghost card spaces
2 location ghost card spaces
3 object ghost card spaces
INTERIOR
8
1
2
3
1 sand timer
(2 minutes)
REAR
84 vision cards Setup
Place the vision
cards pile behind
the game screen.
At the start of the
game, the ghost
draws a hand of
7 cards from the
top of the pile.
10
3
1
1
18 character
ghost cards
rear numbered from 1 to 18
19
19
18 location
ghost cards
rear numbered from 19 to 36
37
37
18 object
ghost cards
rear numbered from 37 to 54
54 ghost cards, as follows:
Game components for the ghost
3 crow markers
6 culprit tokens
rear numbered from 1 to 6
REARFRONT
1 clairvoyancy track
Setup
For 4 to 7 player games
4-5 place as
shown below
6-7 place as
shown below
P.8Setup
6 ghost tokens
rear numbered from 1 to 6
front 1 of each colour Setup
Arrange the ghost
tokens behind the
game screen. Place
them coloured side up
at the bottom of the
appropriate column.
9
9
8
10
11
11
12
12
P.9Use
P.8Use
P.11Use
P.11Use
P.9Use
P.9Use
P.9Use

8
Game Difficulty & Card Setup
Choose the difficulty level for the game. This determines the number of character/
location/object cards that will be used.
1 Shuffle all the character psychic cards and draw (face down) the number shown
in the table below:
3 4 5 6 72
4
5
6
5
6
7
5
6
7
6
7
8
6
8
9
7
8
9
EASY
MEDIUM
HARD
Number of character/location/object cards laid on the table
Number of character/location/object cards laid on the table
Number of character/location/object cards laid on the table
Permitted
discards ( )
by the ghost
Number of
players
per turn
per game
per game
Example: In our five-player game (1 ghost and 4 psychics) at MEDIUM difficulty
level, the players draw 7 character psychic cards.
2 Look through the character ghost cards and select those whose numbers match
the drawn character psychic cards. Pass the character ghost cards to the ghost.
Set up the character psychic cards in the play area (see page 6).
1
1
1
1
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
10
10
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
10
10
1
Character ghost cards
passed to the ghost
Character
psychic cards
drawn by
Carl
Example: Carl has drawn cards bearing the numbers 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 and 17.
After sorting his cards, he passes the character ghost cards numbered 1, 3,
4, 5, 6, 10 and 17 to the ghost.
17
17
17
17
1
1
3 The ghost shuffles the received cards and draws as many cards as there
are psychics in the game. The ghost then places these cards in the character
spaces on the inside of the game screen, in the columns representing the
colours of the various psychics. Put the remaining cards back in the box
without looking at them.
6
6
5
5
17
17
6
6
10
10
Example: Laura (as the ghost) receives 7 cards and shuffles them. She draws the
first card (number 10) and places it in the game screen, in Alex’s
column. She then repeats the operation for the other psychics.
Repeat steps 1 , 2 and 3 for the location cards and then the object cards.
During this setup phase, the ghost generates a combination of three cards (i.e. a
character, a location and an object) for each psychic.
Gameplay
The game is played in two phases:
Phase 1 - Reconstruction of events
This phase lasts a maximum of 7 game turns, represented as hours on the
clock (I, II, III, IV, V, VI et VII).
Phase 2 - Revealing the culprit
This phase takes place if all psychics successfully complete the Reconstruction
of events phase before the end of the seventh game turn.
Phase 1 - Reconstruction of events
During this phase, the psychics attempt to identify which characters are crime
suspects, determine where the foul deed might have been committed, and establish
what objects might have served as the murder weapon.
To visually represent the progress achieved by the psychics during their investigations,
each psychic will move their intuition token along the 4 progress boards (see page 6).
Each investigation is conducted in a particular order: the psychics must first identify their
character (suspect) before attempting to discover their location and finally their object.
The reconstruction of events phase takes place in two steps:
Step 1 - Vision interpretation
Step 2 - Spectral manifestation

9
Step 1 - Vision interpretation
During the first turn, each psychic’s intuition token is placed on the character
progress board. This means that the ghost’s task is to help the psychics to guess the
character card assigned to them behind the game screen. He does this by projecting a
vision to each psychic, consisting of one or more vision cards.
To project a vision, the ghost:
1 chooses a psychic and places one or more vision cards face up
in front of him or her;
2 pushes the ghost token matching the psychic’s colour against
the game screen. This reminds the ghost that he has already
given vision cards to that psychic and cannot give him or her
any more cards during the current turn;
3 draws vision cards to make up his hand to 7 cards. If the vision
cards draw pile is empty, the ghost shuffles the vision cards
discard pile to form a new draw pile;
4 picks another psychic and repeats the same procedure until all psychics have received
at least one vision card.
Upon receiving a vision, each psychic attempts to interpret it and discover the
character/location/object to which it refers (depending which progress board their
intuition token is currently on). To this end, psychics may freely examine their vision
cards and psychic cards, and discuss hypotheses with the other psychics.
When the ghost has projected visions to all psychics, he starts the sand timer.
Each psychic must place his intuition token on the psychic card to which he believes
the ghost is guiding him before the sand timer runs out. The other psychics may
help with decision-making by analyzing cards and giving their opinions. Psychics may
change the positions of their intuition tokens at any time until the sand timer expires.
Note: several psychics may place their
intuition token on the same psychic card.
However, as each psychic has to find a unique
combination (consisting of a character, a
location and an object), the intuition of at
least one of the psychics must be wrong!
Important: although the ghost may listen to discussions between
psychics, he should NEVER make comments or gestures that could serve
as clues, as this would disrupt the gameplay experience.
Laura (as the ghost) wants to help Alex to guess the "governess" character. The
character’s card features a ball of red wool. Laura (as the ghost) browses the cards
in her hand and picks card A (in which a ball and a strand of red wool are visible),
but also card b (which shows other cords and ropes) and card C (which shows a
woman with a hat) to enhance this vision.
Laura must also steer Stephanie’s choice towards the "cook" character.
Card A shows some plates. Laura might also have chosen this card for
Stephanie’s vision. To enhance this vision, she might also have added card D
(on which some cakes appear).
Sample visions
A
A D
B C
Discarding vision cards ( )
At the start of the game, the ghost collects the number of crow
markers corresponding to the chosen difficulty level (see table on
page 8). At any point in the game (including during the Revealing
the culprit phase), the ghost may discard any or all of his vision
cards and draw new cards to make up his hand to 7 cards (subject
to the limit on the number of such discard operations determined
by the difficulty level).
At the EASY difficulty level: the ghost may discard his cards
once per turn, in which case, he places a crow on the game screen,
removing it at the end of the turn.
At the MEDIUM difficulty level: the ghost may discard his cards up to three
times during the game, each time placing a crow on the game screen.
At the HARD difficulty level: the ghost may discard his cards once during the
game, placing a crow on the game screen.
2

10
Using clairvoyancy tokens
Players may add clairvoyancy tokens to the intuition tokens played by the other
psychics, at any time until the sand timer expires. When played successfully, these
tokens enable psychics to progress on the clairvoyancy track, potentially unlocking
extra clues when attempting to identify the culprit in the final phase of the game.
There are two types of clairvoyancy tokens: tokens bearing the symbol,
indicating that the player agrees with the psychic’s intuition, and those
bearing the symbol, indicating the opposite.
A psychic may not play more than one clairvoyancy token per intuition token or
add a clairvoyancy token to his own intuition token;
a psychic may play as many clairvoyancy tokens as he wants during a turn, but is
not obliged to use any at all;
as multiple intuition tokens may be placed on the same psychic card, each
clairvoyancy token should clearly point to the token with which it is associated;
players may move or remove clairvoyancy tokens at any time until the sand
timer expires.
Important: after use, all clairvoyancy tokens ( and ) must be
discarded to the designated space on the clock board. They will be
retrieved at the start of the fourth game turn.
When the sand timer runs out, the Vision interpretation step ends and the ghost
manifests itself.
Step 2 - Spectral manifestation
During this step, the ghost manifests itself to let the psychics know
whether or not they have correctly interpreted their visions. The
ghost may reveal this information in any order he pleases. He
informs each psychic that his intuition was correct (if the psychic’s
token was placed on the right card) or incorrect (if the token was
not placed on the correct card). After manifesting to a psychic, the
ghost moves the ghost token of the corresponding colour away
from the game screen.
If the psychic picked the correct psychic card
The ghost flips the corresponding ghost card in the game screen;
any psychics who played an clairvoyancy token move their markers forward
one space on the clairvoyancy track;
the psychic collects the correct psychic card and slides it into his sleeve;
the psychic discards all his vision cards;
the psychic collects his intuition token and places it on the next progress board.
Example: Stephanie
has successfully identified her character.
During the next turn, Laura (as the ghost) will help her to guess a
location. Stephanie
therefore places her intuition token on the
location progress board.
If the psychic has not picked the correct psychic card
Any psychics who played an clairvoyancy token move their marker forward
one space on the clairvoyancy track;
the psychic returns his intuition token to the same progress board from which it
was taken (Step 1);
the psychic retains his vision cards in front of him. In each subsequent turn, the
ghost will provide one or more additional cards to enhance the vision, until either
the correct psychic card is picked or the game ends.
Example showing the use of clairvoyancy tokens
The ghost indicates that Carl‘s intuition was correct. Stephanie and Alex
had both added a clairvoyancy token to Carl’s intuition token. As a
result, they move their clairvoyancy level marker forward one space
on the clairvoyancy track. Paul, who had played a token, does
not move his marker.
If a psychic has just obtained his three psychic cards
When a psychic has successfully identified his combination of psychic cards, he
places his intuition token on the mission accomplished space on the epilogue progress
board. On the clairvoyancy track, he moves his marker forward one space for each
hour remaining on the clock. Thereafter, he continues to take part by helping the other
psychics to interpret their visions, and may still play any remaining clairvoyancy tokens.
Example: Paul discovers his combination during the fourth hour and therefore
moves his marker forward 3 spaces on the clairvoyancy track.
At the end of this step, move the hour hand forward one hour on the clock.
If one or more psychics have not yet identified their character, location and
object, a new reconstruction of events phase begins. If the clock was already
showing the 7th hour (VII), the game ends and all players lose.
If all the psychics have successfully identified their character, location and object
combinations, move on to the final phase of the game: revealing the culprit.
Note: At the end of this step, the psychics’ intuition tokens may be
located on different progress boards.
Phase 2 - Revealing the culprit
This phase only takes place if all the psychics have successfully identified their
character, location and object combinations before the clock strikes 8.

11
The culprit’s identity is revealed in three steps:
Step 1 - Suspect line-up
Step 2 - Shared vision
Step 3 - Straw poll
Step 1 – Suspect line-up
During this step, the psychics arrange their combinations of cards into groups, in
order to compare the suspects and enable the ghost to identify the culprit.
Collect any psychic cards that were not placed in sleeves and put them back in
the game box, together with the character, location and object progress boards;
Place one ghost token per psychic in the centre of the table, numbered side up.
Example: in our five-player game (with 4 psychics),
4 groups of cards are required and the
psychics, therefore, lay out the ghost
tokens numbered 1 to 4.
Replace the unused ghost tokens in the box.
The psychics remove their combinations of three cards from their sleeves and
associate them with the numbered tokens. Several groups of cards are thus formed
at the center of the table, each containing one suspect.
Example showing card groups
Stephanie
Alex
Carl
Suspects
The ghost collects the 6 culprit tokens and keeps them behind his game screen;
The psychics collect all of their clairvoyancy tokens ( / side).
Step 2 – Shared vision
During this step, the ghost attempts to guide the psychics towards the group of cards in the
middle of the table that contains the culprit.
To this end:
The ghost picks three vision cards from his hand. These
cards form a shared vision and must all point to the same
group. One of the three cards must point to the character
in the target group, another to the location, and the final
card to the object. The ghost then shuffles the shared vision
cards and places them face down in the middle of the table.
This group is designated as the culprit’s group.
The ghost secretly collects the culprit token with the number matching
that group and places it face down in the culprit space on the epilogue
progress board.
Step 3 – Straw poll
During the straw poll, the psychics hold a majority vote to designate the group
containing the suspected culprit. The ghost must not indicate which card in the shared
vision relates to which element of the combination. The true culprit is revealed at the
end of this step.
Voting by the psychics
The psychics vote in secret, and must not communicate with each other during the
voting procedure. Psychics vote at different times, depending on their clairvoyancy level,
as determined by the position of their clairvoyancy level marker on the clairvoyancy track.
psychics with a low clairvoyancy level will see only one card from the shared
vision before voting to identify the culprit’s group;
psychics with an intermediate clairvoyancy level will see two cards;
psychics with a high clairvoyancy level will see all three cards.
L
o
w
I
n
t
e
r
m
e
d
i
a
t
e
H
i
g
h
Note: 6-7 The limits of the various clairvoyancy levels
changes (see page 7).
Culprit token
Shared vision

12
Put differently, the further a psychic has progressed along the clairvoyancy track, the more
clues he will see when the psychics have to identify the group that contains the true culprit.
Psychics vote using the numbered sides of their clairvoyancy tokens.
Each psychic takes the token bearing the number of the group that he
thinks contains the culprit and slides it into his sleeve.
The second shared vision
card is revealed.
Alex and Carl, who reached
spaces 5 and 6 (Intermediate
level) on the clairvoyancy
track, vote now.
The first shared vision
card is
revealed.
Stephanie, who reached space
4 (Low level) on the clairvoyancy
track, votes now.
The final shared vision
card is
revealed.
Paul
, who reached space
11 (High level) on the
clairvoyancy track, votes
now.
Example showing voting by the psychics
When all psychics have voted, the votes are revealed.
Revealing the votes and the true culprit
Pass all the sleeves to the psychic with the highest score on the clairvoyancy track
(or in the event of a tie, to the eldest of the tied players). This player reveals each
clairvoyancy token in turn, placing it on the card group matching the number on the
ghost token.
When all tokens have been placed, proceed as follows:
if one of the groups has received more votes than the others, it is chosen as the
suspected culprit’s group;
if no single group has a clear majority, the tie is broken in favor of the group
chosen by the player who progressed furthest along the clairvoyancy track. That
group is considered to represent the psychics’ verdict on the culprit.
If a tie persists, it is broken in favour of the group for which the eldest
player voted.
Now reveal the culprit token placed on the culprit space!
End of the Game
If the group chosen by the psychics contains the true culprit, all players win the game
together and the ghost’s spirit is laid to rest! Otherwise, the game is lost and the players
must wait until Samhain comes round again before reattempting to solve the mystery
of the manor…
Two- and Three-Player Game
You can play Mysterium with 2 or 3 players by adjusting a few of the rules.
Special setup
1. The clairvoyancy track, the related markers and the clairvoyancy tokens are not used;
2. Each player plays with two psychics;
3. During the shared vision, the three vision cards are placed face up.
Special rules for Phase 2 – Revealing the culprit
Step 1 -
Suspect line-up (page 11)
2 Randomly create two additional groups of cards (with a character, a location
and an object in each group) using psychic cards discarded during the
game, bringing the total number of groups to four. Then place the tokens
numbered 1 to 4 by the four groups thus formed.
3 Place the tokens numbered 1 to 4 by the four groups of cards.
Step 3 -
Straw poll (page 12)
2 The player who plays the two psychics uses only one of his intuition tokens
to designate the suspected culprit’s group.
3 Psychics vote openly rather than in secret. The two players with the role of
psychics must agree which group to identify as the suspected culprit’s group
and place their two intuition tokens on it.