{ [GH
ONE NIG
ULAIMATE WEREW QR
f ER
"7" 5 {CONTENTS
hg) soa FO
tial ox
Rx B $ 215 8
|] > <7 7 :
Ll Uo yA
TROUBLEMAKER || DRUNK INSOMNIAC HUNTER Hora” = *
i / | al
Lf fa x [LR | y -
gl BB BOG
FAD ADA A


ONE NIGHT ROLES A) ea LGAN =
fe ; e Doppelganger is a fairly
You may use additional roles in your games be- R complicated card, because she
yond the basic setup. Just take out a card and < takes on the role and team of
replace it with a different one. You may use virtu- 0 "= Whatever card she views. If you
allyany combination of cards, though you proba- 7] fume fret
bly don't want to introduce more than 1or 2 new other fi i; skip this section
rolesata time, so players can easily lear them. fo poy jt will mabe alot more sense then.
Regardless of which roles are present, you must
always have 3 more cards than players. sr Leases ‘wakes up before the other One
Before each round, place a token that corre- i 5
sponds to each of the cards in the center of the Beep aerooksat uideSngt
GlieiTis ah ensure that everyone knows what lowing based on i sees:
rolesare in the game. 7
Villager, Tanner, Hunter: She is now that role
Each of the roles has certain effects which change did i
the nature of the game. Some roles clearly help and does nothing else at night.
the village team, like the Seer or Mason, while Werewolf or Mason: She wakes up with the
others help the werewolf team, like the Minion. other Werewolves or Masons when they are
Don't be too concerned if one team seems to be called. She is on the werewolf team if she views a
winning too much; gameplay with One Night Werewolf, and is on the village team if she views
tends to evolve over the course of several games. aMason.
Be creative in your role selection: Try having a Seer, Robber, Troublemaker, Drunk: She im-
single Werewolf, or shuffling aff of the cards and mediately does that role’s action (she does not
dealing them out to players entirely randomly! ‘wake up again with the original role when it is
You can even create a village with no Villager called).
cards. that way everyone has aspedal role. Minion: At the end of the Doppelganger phase,
The free app makes using the different roles very the Announcer tells the Doppelganger to dose
easy; the app allows you to choose exactly which her eyes unless she is now the Minion, and that
roles are in the game (that wake up at night), ‘werewolves should put their thumbs up. Sheis on
and th reads Sn) nthe red ee a the werewolfteam.
ven takes care of anomalies for things ke WHEN Insomniac: After the Insomniac closes her
= ofl : yes,
there is a Doppelganger and Minion in the game. ire Doppelganger nsomn is olen w at
eck her card to see if she is still the Doppelgan-
ROLES THAT WAKE UP
AT NIGHT Ifa player receives the Doppelganger ard during
These roles wake up at night in the following ~~ thenight, she is the role the Doppelganger origi-
order (see the chart on the back page for asum- nally viewed. The Doppelganger script at night
mary). Within each of the role descriptions is a isalittle different than most, as she has to be told
sample script which the Annoluncer may use: 10 look for werewolves if she is the Minion, and is
‘woken up later at night if the Insomniac is pres-
ent, Use the following script if there is no Minion
in the game:


“Doppelganger, wake up and look at flips if you viewed the Insom-
another player's card. You are now that niac card, wake up and look at your card.”
ole. If your new role has a night action, The Doppelganger opens her ees and looks
doit now. at her cardto seeif has changed during the
TheDeppelginger pens fer oes adlooks night.
at oneotherplayer's ard. If the viewed card is = : E,
theSeer, Robber, Troublemaker, or Drunk, she SRE your yes:
dossthtacin right: Ite viewedand
is a Werewolfor Mason, she wakes up when
thoseroles are called. f the viewed cards a _% — WEREWOLF
Villager, Tanner or Hunter, she does nothing. 7 ~~ At night, all Werewolves open
? 3 #2 their eyes and look for other
Doppekmmer duseyoureyest we werewolves. If no one else opens
Side the other Werewolves
Ifthere sa Minion in the game, use this script: are in the center. Werewolves are
on the werewolf team.
“Doppelganger, wake up and look at
another players card. You are now that “Werewolves, wake up and look for other
role. Ifyour new role has a night action, Werewolves.”
doitnow” The Werewolves open their eyes and look
The Doppelgiinger opens her eyes and looks for anyone else whose eyes are open (there
at one other player's card. If the viewed card is might not be any others).
the Seer, Robber, Troublemaker or Drunk, she r
does that action right now. f the viewed card “Werewolves, close your eyes.
is a werewolf or Mason, she wakes up when 3 i
thoseroles are called. Ifthe viewed card is a Lone Wolf Option: If there is only one Werewolf,
Villager, Tanner or Hunter, she does nothing. the Werewolf may view one center card. This is
5 ol extremely beneficial to a Werewolf who doesn't
orate LEA SICE, hae & partner, and provides him vith useful
Si ant yom I the DbNietioe tool for deceiving the rest of the players.
Minion can see who you are.”
Ifthe Doppelgiingers a Minion, she keeps MINION
her eyes open; otherwise, she closes them. Immediately following the Were-
The werewolves stick out a thumb for the wolf phase at night, the Minion
Doppelgnger-Minion to see. wakes up and sees who the Were-
- @" wolves are. During this phase, all
hemes put ut sac oy ASRS Yom, ot ew unis
p) so the Minion can see who they
are. The Werewolves don't know who the Minion
If there is an Insomniac in the game, after the In- is. If the Minion dies and no Werewolves die, the
somniac has been called, usethe following script: ~~ Werewolves (and the Minion) win. If no players
are Werewolves, the Minion wins as long as one
other player (not the Minion) dies. This role can
be a very powerful ally for the werewolf team.
This Minion is on the werewolf team.


“Minion, wake up. Werewolves, stick out 4 Fo ¢ ROBBER
your thumb so the Minion can see who At he the Robber may choose
youare.” to liek ar foresnother re
The Minion opens his eyes. The Werewolves and place his Robber card where
stick out a thumb for the Minion to see. The E4 the other card was. Then the
Minions look around to see which players are «#- Robber looks at hs new card. The
pike player who receives the Robber
«card is on the village team. The Robber is on the
“Werewolves, put your thumbs away. team of the card he takes, however, he does not do
Minion, close your eyes. the action of his new role at night.
If the pups Chouses Toth Ll cord fod i
other player, he remains the Robber and is on
MASON village team.
43 When using the Masons always
IY put both Masons in the game. “Robber, wake up. You may exchange your
The Mason wakes up at night and card with another player's card, and then
1 «looks for the other Mason. If the View your new card.”
+ Mason doesn't see another Mason, The player with the Robber card opens his
it means the other Mason card isin eyes and may quietly exchange his ard for
the center. Masons are on the village team. another player's ard, which he looks at.
“Masons, wake up and look for other “Robber, close your eyes.
Masons”
The Masons open their eyes and look for
anyone ise whose yes are open (there , TROUBLEMAKER
might not be any others). SP" At night, the Troublemaker may
Me 1 ” 4 switch the cards of two other
iasolls, Close your eyes, players without looking at those
pb A cards. The players who receive
A a different card are now the role
SEER res and stu thelinew carl 2]
i i though they dont know what role that is until
ae er a) look the end ofthe ame. The roublemaerison the
oat two of the center cards, but Villagetear.
de ming “Troublemaker, wake up. You may ex-
Les change cards between two other players.”
“Seer, wake up. You may look at another The player with the Troublemaker card opens her
player's card or two of the center cards.” eyesand may quietly exchange the cards of two
The player with the Seer card opens her eyes otherplayers without looking a those cards.
and may quietly look at one other player's “Troublemaker, close your eyes.”
cardor any two of the cards in the center.
“Seer, dose your eyes.”


# DRUNK TANNER
A The Drunk is so drunk that he The Tanner hates his job so much
doesn't remember his role. When that he wants to die. The Tanner
i it comes time to wake up at night, only wins if he dies. If the Tanner
~— he must exchange his Drunk card # dies and no Werewolves die, the
for any card in the center, but he ZF". Werewolves do not win. If the Tan-
does not look atit. The Drunk is now the new role ner dies and a Werewolf also dies,
in front of him (even though he doesn’t know ‘the village team wins too. The Tanner is consid-
‘what that new role is) and is on that team. ered a member of the village (but is not on their
team), so if the Tanner dies when all werewolves
“Drunk, wake up and exchange your card are in the center, the village team loses. The Tan-
with a card from the center.” ner isnot on the werewolf or the villager team.
The player with the Drunk card opens his
eyes and exchanges his card for one of the
three center cards, but does not view his So HUNTER 3
het we If the Hunter dies the ie he
pe i 7) "is pointing at dies as well (regard-
Drunk, close your eyes. less of how many votes his target
2 tcetes). The Hunters on hei
e. lage team.
INSOMNIAC PLAYT!
The Insomniac wakes up and ESTERS
looks at her card (to see fithas tami dn irs tn bn ie is
- changed). Only use the INSOMNI- se baie Spee oer ee (cf.
", acif the Robber and/or the Trou foi Sel Coe fey une Co cot Ve a se ks ty
blemaker are in the game. The Ltn Cr eC be
“Insomniac, wake up and look at your card.” air db. bt Le, eB Sl
The player with the Insomniac card opens pT
‘her eyes and looks at her own card to see if it
has changed during the night. THE ORIGINAL ONE NIGHT WEREWOLF
0 i = he orignal Japs. 5
Insomniac, close your eyes. ese version of Oe mi
Tight revel vas £5 BE
reed in Jan
NO-WAKE ROLES Sy bss EET TERETE ¥
ow api nse NJ
The following roles do not wake up at night: = or &¥ ‘A
in apa. Es
nglablevwith37 - a
= VILLAGER tog ir et ln ei
The Villager has no special abili= ees bij mrt sys nd ove opi. tet
ties, but he is defintely not a bistordne gina Horewn'uch epandedon the bas oct,
werewolf, Playersmay Often claim eno iim poen a ego: compact vein nd Ore Hight
to be a Villager. The Villager is on Ve.
TEL estan Sime ne
Fon he. war eos om ne js


NIGHT WAKE ORDER ONE NIGHT PLAYMAT
When playing with different roles, the order that Keep night card movement noise quieter by pur-
the roles wake » at night is important. The fol- chasing an official 14” x 26” One Night Ultimate
lowing is a list of ALL the roles that are woken at Werewolf soft (mousepad style) playmat directly
night, and the order they should be woken rela- from Bezier Games at www.beziergames.com.
tive to each other (only call the roles that are in
your game): Be

#1: Doppelganger

#2: Werewolves M

#3: Minion

£: pi A

#5: Seer ;

#6: Robber A _S

#7: Troublemaker ONE NIGHT YH

#8: Drunk

#9: Insomniac

#9a: Doppelganger/Insomniac DAYBREAK
The Villagers, the Tanner, and the Hunter are One Ni "

b ight Ultimate Werewolf Daybreak adds 11
never woken up at ight. few rls to the orga on Nght Uinat
ferewolf game, including the Alpha Wolf (whic
ABOUT THE DESIGNERS transforms another [hive into a Werewolf dur-
Ted Alspach is the designer of several games Ind the night), the hii Seer (who is just
including Ultimate Werewolf and Suburbia. He re- earning, and can only view a single card at
sides in a secluded fortress somewhere in North- Might), and the Curator, who places a mysterious
‘ern California with his wife, son, daughter, dog, ~~ artifact on another player's card, which can dra-
and two cats, all of whom daim not to be were- matically change them. Order Daybreak directly
Li pl TEL from Bezier Games at www.beziergames.com.
Akihisa Okui is the designer of the Japanese - s——
game One Night Werewolf, which became the
bestselling board game in Japan for 2013.
v-
ABOUT THE ARTIST
Brazilian artist Gus Batts has illustrated more a A
than 50 children’s books. See more of his fantas- ONERET ot or ots
tic artwork at www.gusbatts.daportfolio.com. D A \ /BRE A J ¢
[ yay
www.beziergames.com
UtimateWerewl, Oe Nigh Uist Were, One Hight timate Merwe Dyes, nd hese res re
Copyright 2015 Ted lspch nd Bie Games, Pts eserve, One Ngh Werewa Copygh 201 ibs Oh, alight served
