ONE NIGHT ULTIMATE WEREWOLF
DAYBREAK 4
po CONTENTS
p | BESTE MYSTIC £8 .
AZT PSP
Aw OY
le? ey Fd s BY - A £3 a
womoncesin | pons | gues || 907. @
PYIETIE 1. De
Sallie, %b §) (2
mag REVEALER CURATOR any
3 & o
CEE, Ql &
do A LB ®__=
DREAM WOLF ne
AE 6g0
%


TR GETTY ————
n hel £8 yet bough Wolf,
If playing a Wolf,
DAYBREAK ROLES ie Be Sa
This section describes allof he roles in Daybreak, | 2"§_ (including a regular Werewolf,
and also explains how they interact with roles “the Mystic Wolf; or Dream Wolf)
from the original One Night Ultimate Werewolf face down and perpendicular to
game. the three el cards (see the
a ; setup image on page 2 of the Getting Started
for Chile spn Ins the Al Guide for an example of where to place the
pha Wolf, Mystic Wolf, and Dream Wolf. Center Werewolf card). At night, the Alpha Wolf
If you're a One Night Ultimate Werewolf veteran, Wakes with the other Werewolves. Afterwards,
a) afew of ‘the Daybreak roles to each game un- the Alpha Wolf wakes up seperately. The Alpha
til you become comfortable with them. Wolf must exchange the Center Werewolf card
with any other player's card (but not his own card
ROLES THAT WAKE UP or another Werewolf card), without looking at
either card.
AT NIGHT |
All roles that can view or move a center card may
also view or move the Center Werewolf card.
on SENTINEL The Alpha wolf son the werewolf team.
i The Sentinel wakes up and may
# place a shield token on any “Alpha Wolf, wake up and exchange the
WW Blaers cand except his own, Center Werewolf card for any other player's
= 7) That card may not be viewed ard”
#8 ¥5) ormoved, and may not have an The Alpha Wolf opens his eyes and exchanges
artifactplaced on it. the Center Werewolf card with another
The Sentinel’ shield prevents the Witch, Robber, player's card.
Drunk, and Insomnia from viewing or mov- p 9
ing their own card (if it is shielded). While the lpn Mol, hom your yes:
Drunk’s power is normally mandatory, a shield on
the Drunks card prevents the Drunk from using
his power. __4 MysTIC WOLF
During setup, a shield token should ZZ The Mystic Wolf wakes with the
be placed near the center cards so BI ee wl ci ar
the Seufioetcam cat fevch ry ately. The MysticWolf may look at
The Sentinel is on the village team. one other player's card. The Mystic
Wolfis on ‘he ‘werewolf team.
“Sentinel, wake up. You may place a shield
‘token on any player's card but your own.” “Mystic Wolf, wake up. You may look at
The Sentinel apens his eyes and may place another player’ card.”
a shield token on any player's card but his The Mystic Wolf opens her eyes and may
own. quietly look at one other player's card.
“Sentinel, close your eyes.” “Mystic Wolf, close your eyes.”


ig) | Wr i oy
© APPRENTICE SEER WITCH
Pr The Apprentice Seer wakes up ee aac pay ook
and og rd at one of the center at one of the center cards. If she
"cards. The Apprentice Seer is on the does look at a center card, then
- village team. she must exchange that card with
- any player's card (including herown
card), placing that player card back
Roe Tie 2 vk of a Ro inthe center in the same Jaton) without look-
H hid ing at it. The Witch is on the village team, unless
one of the center cards.’ she replaces her own card with a card from a dif-
The player with the Apprentice Seer card ferent tearm.
opens her eyes and may quietly look at one
of the cards n the center. “Witch, wake up. You may look at one
“Apprenti . of the center cards. If you do, you must
Appreniice Seer lose per eyes: exchange that card with any player's card.”
The player with the Witch card opens her
~~, PARANORMAL eyes and may quietly look at one of the cards
in the center. If she does, she must exchange
INVESTIGATOR that card with any player's ard.
The PJ. wakes up and may look at py é
(\$7 theardsofupto two other ly- Witch, close your eyes!
Wes, one at a time. If he views a
Werewolf or Tanner, he may not
view any more cards, and he becomes a Werewolf - VILLAGE IDIOT
or Tanner, respectively. , The Village Idiot wakes up and
I the PL see the Doppelginger that su a may move all players’ cards but his
Werewolf, he continues looking (he doesn't know own one place to the left or move
what the Dopeme saw, and does not be- all players’ cards but his own one
ome what the Doppelganger saw, even if the EW place to the right. If he chooses to
Doppelganger saw a Werewolf or Tanner). move cards, he must always move
The Paranomal lovestigatorisontheageteam,  ILCLA1ers ands except his own card, he center
ee Wren wh tse as Cds andany cards vitha shield oken on them.
the werewolf team, orfhe finds a Tanner, in which ~~ The Village Idiot is on the village team.
case he becomes a Tanner and only wins if he dies.
“Village Idiot, wake up. You may move
“PJ, wake up. You may look at up to two everyone's card but your own to the left or
cards of other players. Ifyou see a Were- to theright”
Wolforthe Tanner, you ust stop, and jou The player with the Village diot ard apens
become a Werewolf or the Tanner.” ‘his eyes and may quietly move everyone's card
Theplayer with the PI. card opens his eyes but his own, the enter cards, ora card witha
and may quietly look at up to two other shield token onit tothe left or tothe right.
players cards. If he sees a Werewolfor the yillage Idi A
Tanner, he stops looking and becomes a “Vilage diot, dose your eyes”
Werwolfor the Tanner.
“Pl. closeyour eyes.”


BRR AE © RE dl hie
A REVEALER NO-WAKE ROLES
oo The Reteler wakes upand may ip
Lv) any other pl 's card face up. Ifa a»
8 Views itor amer shonin. be BODYGUARD
‘must flip it over again face down. When everyone votes, the player
If the Revealer reveals a Doppel- /4 that the Bodyguard pains to
gingerorP). card, he leavestface cannot be killed. If that player
up. The Revealer only flips one card face up, evenif = 7 received the most votes, the
hefinds a Werewolfor Tanner. Sh i ith the net most votes
» p (at least two) is killed. Recom-
The Revealeris on the village team. mended for five or more players.
“Revealer, wake La? natin overany When the Bodyguard is in the game, it is neces-
other player's card. fitisa Werewolforthe sary for all players to tum their cards over right
Tanner, flip it over face down.” after the vote (to seeifthe Bodyguard is pointing
The player with the Revealer card opens his to the player with the most votes).
eyes andmay quietly fp another player’ i i »
cardoversoitis face up. Iitisa Werewolf or The Bo dyer iso he ioge teas.
the Tanner itmust be flipped again face down.
Revealer, close your eyes.” DREAM WOLF
The Dream Wolf does not wake up
withthe othe Werewolves When
the Werewolves are called, he
CURATOR sticks out his thumb so that the
The Curator wakes up and may [ other Werewolves know who he
choose and place a random face is. When playing with the Min-
down Artfact token (withoutlook- jon, the Dream Wolf sticks out his thumb during
ing atit) on any players the Minion’ night phase. The Dream Wolf is on
Grd indudinghisown). ~~ the werewolfteam.
See the lst on the 0ppo- mms desi
site page fortokens and their effects. 5 When playing with the Dream Wolf, the an-
” nouncer should wake the Werewolves slightly
The Curator may not place an Artifact to- differently:
Kenona card that has ashield token on it.
The Curatorison thebvillagetea. Morewole, except orth ream fol,
wake up and look for other Werewolves.
“Curator, wake up. You may place an Arti- Dream Wolf, stick out your thumb.”
fact token face down on any player's ard’ The Werewolves (except for the Dream Wolf)
The player with the Curator card opens his open their eyes and look for anyone ese
eyes and chooses one of the face down Art- whose eyes are open. The Dream Wolf sticks
fact tokens and placesit on any player’ ard. Sst eriotany 3the Westie know
who hes.
“Curator, close your eyes.”
pourey “Dream Wolf, put your thumb away.
Werewolves, close your eyes.”


TE CPRY, ha ps
4 “
ARTIFACTS Mo,
There are different Artifact “i _ CLAW OF THE WEREWOLF
tokens that can be placed % 75 Youarenowa Werewolf.
PUES on any players card by the rie
A Curator. When the night
phase is over, any player with
an Artifact token on his card °°
must immediately secretly look at his token. A ¥ 5 BRAND OF THE VILLAGER
player with an Artifact token may not show that You are now a Villager, with no
token to anyone else. However, they may say any- Hom, special abilities.
thing about that token that they want to: they
may say what it actually is, they may lie, etc.
All Artifact tokens override the card they are
placed on; the Artifacts that change your role also CUDGEL OF THE TANNER
take away any special power you might have at 0, You are now a Tanner. You only
the end of the game (for instance, if your card is win if you die. If you die, the
the Bodyguard and you receive the Brand of the werewolf team cannot win. If a
Villager, the person you pointat gets a vote and is Frm Werewolf and you both die, both
not protected, because you are a Villager and not you and the village team wins.
a Bodyguard anymore).
Artifact tokens that change a players role also Y
remove the Hunter's power Tamers winning VOID OF NOTHINGNESS
condition if the token owner had one of those This artifact has no effect.
cards.
Atoken that is the same as your card (for instance,
receiving a Claw of the Werewolf token on top of
your Werewolf card) doesn't really do anything. $4 MASK OF MUTING:
However, you often can't be sure if your card was fi) 100 mit hot spel. fou way Le
changed; butif it was, the token overrides that. i hn | isc 0 ngage,
During setup, all of the Artifact tokens should be : }
placed face down and shuffled, and the stack of
face-down Artifact tokens should be placed near SHROUD OF SHAME:
the center cards so the Curator can easily reach $00, Youmustium yourhais body and
them. 0 fie away from te ater players.
You may choose to include only some of the Ar- fou may still speak, but you may
tifacts instead of all of them, based on your per- betta
si LCC 5 N around when voting, but you may
The following is a list of Artifacts: {tryto) potat any player (he oth-
er players will determine who you
Al at).


he 4 Saad Ba BREE boil
PPELGANG! “Village Idiot: The Doppelginger-Village Idiot
A) DO ER may pmb Haves ‘cards to the left
1Y oH AND DAYBREAK or right. She does not wake up when the Village
7 Even though your group of players dots called.
od might be very comfortable using Revealer: The Doppelganger-Revealer wakes up
the Doppelganger with the origi- towards the end of the night, immediately after
nal One Night Ultimate Werewolf roles, we sug- ‘the Revealer goes to sleep, and may flip over any
feta play with the new roles without the player’ card that is face down; if that card is a
ppelganger before playing with her. Netewoltior a Tome it must be Spd nce
The Doppelganger does the following based on ~~ OVer face down. She does not wake up when the
what she sees (roles marked with a* are nightac- Original Revealer is called.
tions that the Doppelganger does immediately): Gator: [The oppelginger utr vakes 1p
3 i i i ight, i ately after
“Sentinel: The Doppelganger-Sentinel may im- ~~ {owards the end af the night, Immediately of
’ Di goes to sleep, and may place an Arti-
Me fcly pra hie token on another players + ken face down on any player's card, except
g a card that already has a shield or another token
*Alpha Wolf: The Doppelganger-Alpha Wolf im- on it. She doesnot wake up when the original Cura-
mediately exchanges the Center Werewolf card toris called.
ncn ator Grd ihn heey Bodyguard: he snow tha lead oes nth
are called, the Doppelganger-Alpha Wolf wakesup 19 else at night. When it comes times to vote,
with the rest of the Werewolves. She does nat wake the Doppelganger-Bodyguard's “Yote” protects
upwhen the Alpha Wofis called. whichever player she is pointing at.

4 Bias Aco Dream Wolf: The Doppelganger-Dream Wolf
Ede Ik ope dO han 15 onthe werewolf team but she dos not vke
the werewolves ae called, she wakes upwiththe ith the other Werewolves but instead puts her
rest of the werewolves. She does not wake up font out when the Werewolves are called at
when the Mystic Wolf is called. lis

. TR " ‘The script for the Doppelganger is more complex
ead ieee Ape depending on which Daytreak ols you have in
She docs not wake ub when the Hoprentice Scr. Blace. If she sees a no-wake role (Bodyguard or
alled. Pp Pp Eo eA eke ght acti role (Senti-

nel, Alpha Wolf, Mystic Wolf, Apprentice Seer, P1.,
*Paranormal Investigator: The Doppelganger- Witch, Village Idiot), you may use the standard
PI. may immediately look at other players’ cards, script from the original One Night Ultimate Were-
one ata time, up to two of them. If she sees awere- wolf game. If she views the Revealer or Curator,
wolf she must stop, and then she becomes awere- she'll need to wake again right after those roles
wolf. She does not wake up when the PJ. is called. wake up.
“Witch: The Doppelganger-Witch may immedi-
ately look at a center card, and if she does that
she must exchange it for any player's card with-
out looking at that player's card. She does not
wake up when the Witch is called.


PAY. — .
If the Revealer and Doppelganger are both in
play, using the following oe after the Re- FUN SCENARIOS
vealer: While you can mix any set of roles together and still
have a great time playing, The following are a few
Toppelginger ifyou viewed the Revealer sets that we've found particularly engaging during
card, wake up and turn any card face up. hundreds of playtest sessions. The player counts are
If the card you reveal is a Werewolf or a ‘the minimums; you can add other roles to these sets
Tanner, turn it back over face down.” to match the number of players (remember you
The Doppelganger opens her eyes and turns need 3 more cards than players).
over any player’ ard. Ifitis a Werewolf or a elon? ployer
Tanne, she lips it over face down again. El Trforaaths hove oka
‘Doppelganger, close your eyes. Wolf, Mystic Wolf, Minion, Robber, Witch
If the Curator and Doppelganger are bothin play, ~~ Trust No One: Doppelganger, Alpha Wolf,
using the following Script after the Curator: Dream Wolf, Robber, Witch, Tanner.
“Doppelganger, if you viewed the Curator Atleast d players
card, wake up and place an Artifact token Cautionary Tale: Werewolf, Mystic Wolf, Seer,
onany card” Apprentice Seer, Revealer, Hunter, Bodyguard.
The Doppelgiinger opens her eyes and places an
Artifact token face down on any player card Atleast 5 players i
which does not already havea token onit. Iekration Society: Werewolf, Mystic Wolf,
eer, Apprentice Seer, Paranormal Investigator,
“Doppelganger, close your eyes." Witch, Insomniac, Revealer.
Total Chaos: Doppelganger, Alpha Wolf, Were-
wolf, Robber, Witch, Troublemaker, Village Idiot,
Curator.
PLAYING WITH MORE
THAN 10 PLAYERS
Ifyou have more than 10 players who want to play,
and you have both One Night Ultimate Werewolf and vr
tits consider splitting into two groups, with p=
each group playing separate game. <r
Ifyou want to have a giant game with more than ~*~
10 people all playing together, you'll want one per-
son who isn't playing to standsit near the cards to \
show/move cards as each player wakes up. When A
a player wakes up, they point to the card(s) to be 4 \ ’
shown/moved, and the non-player does that action
for them. Trying to itmore than 10 people around a ~~
table where everyone wants to reach the center of
the table can be challenging otherwise. — ’


¢ TUT Awan” /
NIGHT WAKE ORDER THANKS PLAYTESTERS
WITH DAYBREAK & Corey Allen, Jenny Allen, Carol Alspach, Dakota
ONE NIGHT Alspach, Gage Alspach, Toni Alspach, Micah D.
Bobo, Ric Bretschneider, Patrick Boyd, Chris
The following is a list of all the roles that are Castagnetto, Caroline Castagnetto, Bay Chang,
woken at night from both the original One Night Audrey Cueto, J) Cwik, Jimmy DeLisle, Annie Diaz,
Ultimate Werewolf game as well as Daybreak, and Teddy Diaz, Scott Dye, James A. English, Chad
the order they should be woken relative to each Exersgerd, Tim Farley, Randy Farmer, Hamilton
other (only call the roles that are in your game): Farrow, Melody Farrow, Shelley Ganschow, Doug
#0: Sentinel Garrett, Ryan Graham, Debbie Gustein, Stepha-
bt oe oes ‘ nie Humphrey, Dean Lizardo, Cameron McKenzie,
bit gob grl Brent Moroz, Richard New, Aaron Newman, Mario
2 ped fo Palita, Greg Poulos, Steve Samson, Kenneth Stu-
12.0 Meth wolt art, Sean Tompkins, Ray Wisneski, Kevin Wood,
Hadabidd Chris Woodmansee, Karen Woodmansee, and
#3: Minion many others.
#: Miso "
#5: Seer
#5-8: Apprentice Seer ABOUT THE DESIGNER
#5-C-Paranormal Investigator Ted Alspach is the designer of several games
#6: Robber including One Night Ultimate Werewolf, Castles of
#6-B: Witch Mad King Ludwig, Ultimate Werewolf, and Subur-
#7: Troublemaker bia. He resides in a secluded fortress somewhere
#78: Village Idiot in Northern California with his wife, son, daugh-
#8: Drunk ter, dog, and two cats, all of whom claim not to
#9: Insomniac i be werewolves. Ted doesn't believe any of them.
Be oppeihuetie mac
: Revealer
#10a: Doppelganger-Revealer ABOUT THE ARTIST
#11: Curator Brazilian artist Gus Batts has illustrated more
#112: Doppelganger-Curator than 50 children’s books. See more of his fantastic
artwork at www.gusbatts.daportfolio.com.
The Villagers, the Tanner, and the Hunter from
One Night Ultimate Werewolf are never woken up
at night. The Bodyguard and Dream Wolf from
Daybreak are never woken up at night.
bezier games
www.beziergames.com
One ight Utimate Werewolf and One Night Ultimate Werewolf: Daybreak and these rules are copyright ©2015 Td Alspach
‘nd Bezier Games, Inc.All Rights Resered.
