ONE NIGHT DIRE
In One Night Ultimate Vampire, the sun hasjust set, and vampires have descended on your sleepy little:
town, slowly turing the villagersinto even more vampires. Fortunately, the village has several resi-
dents withspedal pater, with ostof ther ling to help eminate tisfanged menace!
CONTENTS
pear VAMPIRE THE THE COUNT “4, rr El 14 “ge
(2 Pr
7 N% X Ng & x Tus i
LOS = | ER
oh A% eb. DDO
RED | ots wen msmcaton EEN 8
Z GN LAA
a
we VIER <I i / sS ugd
mew | swe | amome | wesw | macoom | eam
I) BD. an a &
Ad Bad & 7-3 % 2 A
a I~ J Ry
#, a. a5 Fn @
wy, 3 LNCS 3 3
beooooRE@
7 Se, Bp [=e Bo, eh pW,
[; Fl Lod ay ~' ~ |< J 4b 4 = ']
eQo@Cocees
sg, RE or er, ove gg er,
fe foe ealtha 4 “4 [cd HA ET EER
2000288 E
ws ran oat Orsgast toy toy tame age Clans Assasst
¥ Tv FRR TFT


FOR PLAYERS OF DUSK
THE ORIGINAL ONE In Vampire, several oes tale thef action before the
NIGHT ULTIMATE “regular” OneNight roles that take thei action at night.
Dusk is when the Copycat, Vampires, Diseased, Cupid,
WEREWOLF GAME ERR oan gprs msi
Vanpieindudes anges om he rd nelle Veletpnd efom er crs.
imate Werewolf game and its sequel i i
Sie fo ef Sond ie ee i = Jerre beds ll payers
at an Ta ree fulsedled ect al ies wit Nig actions weal a
Vierewolf games and Vapi. “=
Ee hoes requires some additional setup. See MARKS
up below. - - :
LL . . In Vampire, each player is given a Mark of Garity at
Dusk: Dusk sa period before the regular night roles the start of the game. Dung the Dusk” phase, ad-
take their actions. See Dusk” below. ditional Marks oy the game, Had oneor
Marks: Marks are additional tokens given to every- More players’ Marks to a different Mark. During the
oneatthe tat of he game. They an change during ~~ Night phase, the Pidkpocket and the Gremlin. may
the“ Dusk” period. See Marks” below, move players Marks, and te tka may view a
2 : 5 5 players Mark.
Assassin and Apprentice Assassin: The Assassin
and Apprentice Assassin are two new teams that can ~~ No player may ever have more than one Mark; as
winin conjunction with anotherteam, Seethe Assas- Soon asa Sil gives a Mark toa player, the receiv-
Santora ale te et pote HERE Reet dae
Vampires and Werewolves in the same game:
Its possible to have both Vampires and Werewolves The Mark of the Vampire is given
plying bu his happens same of heres cange SE oan Plager (capt an exiting
slightly See the" Epic Battles" section below. ER? Vom) by the Vampires who
See the last page of these rules for more information WANOY) woke up iether. The player who
about One Nt Ukimate Werewolf and Daybreak. ey al ue er Fae =
vote action. If the Master ends up
SETUP witht Mak estas i
When playing Vampire, you may use any combina- VSB LTE
ig pines bts mn) morerole fy upwith Ek he isa vampire.
than there are players. Each player receives one cart se
EN WA Hy och ty and oak The Matcof Fog ee
of Clarity, which is placed face down near their card. im es
While you may use any number of Vampires, we rec- obs ves he Mako
ommend sigan cmbiaionf to apie for S585 Ihe Vampire). Th Ployer wh r-
pr ives this may not do their st
Place the three extra cards in the center ofthe table action (however, they may still do
facedown. their Dusk action, as they won't
Below the 3 cards in the enter, place the Marks eat
boards. Place the corresponding Marks above these J
boards, andflip Marks thatarein the game face down.


834, Renfield takes the Mark of the S55¥8s,. The Assasin givesthe Mark of he
7 pv Batand eles is curent Merk EA Aas any payer. hess
7 FS with it. The Mark does not have ~*~ 8777 sinonlywinsifthe playerwhohas
“Pyggs®  anyotherspecal power. Pegpes® this Markis led.
3s; The Diseased gives the Mark of
A. icactoditherthe payerto the PLAYING WITH THE
ANE J VAMPIRE ROLES
ov ly player who votes for the
sEp% player ith the Mark of Disease This section describes al of the roles in One ight UF
cat wi, though the player ine pie, and ako clans ote ira
with this Mark can win. wih oks pe ES
- ‘game and its sequel, Daybreak.
4803), Cupid hands out two Marks of Love
2%, 10a two players, immediately For the ols below, amp des tho reir
~ afer Dusk, ployer vith this Mork Vamp Theses andThe Cun. any Vampre'
rsd tae lost who sno wih ledaticendfthegame temp tam.
Wows’ them ffaplayervithaarkofloe ify neg imate revolt, phy
dies the ther payer vith the Mark ampire first with no Werewolves. Once you ot the
of Love dies too, evenif fp hang of how the Marks work, yen add Were-
‘was protected during the vote (for volves (see the section “Epic Battles” for more details
instance, f The Master has a Mark on comming the games)
of ate and the ter lar vit
afar Lovedis Tellers
t00,evenif aVampire was pointing pa COPYCAT
athimduringthe vote). N The Copycat wakes up andmustlook
Players who are in love are woken atoneof the center ards. From that
up after Dusk, and before the pot on i he game the Copycat
regularnight actions take place. isthe role he viewed. If that role is
i £8 i: alled, the Copycat wales up and
ova, The Istgtor doses o player 45 foesthat role ation.
“ whowillbea taitorto histean pL oh
Ey by givng them the Mai ofthe he oil Sg gis Wil Bt
"Tair The plyervith this Mark ~~ ifthe Copycat ards moved toandther player.
Zairo® cols fa pe on fs ean TCpatsonthe efits
ies. fhe i the only player on his
team, the Mark of the Traitor has “Copycat, wake up and look at one of the center
noeffect. fue You. i now ut 2 Ifthat roleis
— called, wake up and do that action.”
En) 0 Nak d Gay dalton, pat apes his psand must okt
5 bre Re NF Oo oneofthe Center cards. He becomes that roe
§ U i a cosy the Pst andwill wake up again later f that ole has
a : aDuskorNightaction.
eam remove other Mark. Players with
this Mark have their role and team “Copycat, dose youreyes”
definedby their rent card.


» a, VAMPIRE <5 « THE COUNT

c Vapi (nding The Nase NRy The Count wakes up with the

and The Count) wake up and look NW Vampires. Then the Vampires

§ for other Vampires. Then the must place the Mark ofthe Vampire

+7 AS Vampires must place the Merk 5 in fron of one other non-Vampire

HE fie Vamp in ont of one | ples, ang ial pres orga

ather non-Vampire player, tak- rk (without looking att) and plac-

ingthat layers orginal without ookngat) gia down nthe its boas in he empty
andplacngit face down on the Marks boardsinthe ~~ Vampirespot.

SpE He also wales up after the Vampires fave closed

The Vampireison the vampire team. thei eyes, and must place the Mark of Fear on any

pone he may ntplciton they vho

“Vampires, wake upand look or other ha the kof the api, tat ers ow

Vampires. Giveany non-Vampire playeralark a Vampire). The Mark of Fear preventsa player from

of the Vampire?” using their Night action (they have ane).

The Vampires opens their eyes, look around The Catmts 08 thévmpie team.

for other Vampires, and then must placea Cs

Mark of the Vampire in front of any non- “Count, wake up and place the Mark of Fearn

Vampire. frontof any non-vampire player”

“Vampires, lose your eyes” Theauntapens ise, and ten ust
place a Mark of Fear in front of any non-
vampire.

THE MASTER “Count, close your eyes!’
hf ~The Master wiles up with the
C Jampires. Then the Vampires must
/- place the Mark of the bie ~< RENFIELD

0 front of one other non-Vampire < If Renfield is in the game, the
player, taking that panes origi- CN Vampires must point at the play-
al Mar wthout looking 8 1) ST. cr wilh the ark of the Varo
andplacingit face down on the Marks boardsin the 7 ha when they dose their eyes and
empty Vampire spot. Zur Je the ges poteg ul
The Masters special pover cas dung hee Renfield doses his eyes. Renfield
anctherapreterequ Vampire te unt or jsokequp and sees Wik T RIES
the player with the Mark of the Vampire) votes for ~~ are and who they are lic Then Renfield
him, the Master is protected and cannot be killed, ~~ Must take the Mark of the Bat and I itin front
Instead, the playerwith the 2nd most votes (greater ~~ 9fhim face down, placing his original Mark (without
than) skilled looking at facedown onthe ty Bat sot n
5 th lark bars. Rend inas ons an

The Masterson thevampire tear. piesare led, evenif Renfield himself dis.
Ifthe Mark of the Bat ends up on another player it

hasnoeffect on tht player.

Renfield son the vampire team (but hes nota Vam-
pire), unless no playersare Vampire (or have the Mark
ofthellampire)inwhichasehe’s onthe ilagerteam.


“Vampires, point at the player who has the Mark “Capi : ;
ofthelamppeand nto Renfeld, ome Youmay ge a SERRE
wake up and lookaround forthe Vampires, then 5 :
place the Mark of the Bat in front of you.” Cipidopens her eyes and the) BREE
Renfeldgpes is pe anda araundtosee Jarkol Love to InociliEE LS
who the Vampires ara tosee who they ae “Cupid, dose youreyes.”
poning at andmistpiac the Haro the
at in front of himself.
“Vampires, put your hands down. Renfield, INSTIGATOR
close your eyes.” § The Instigator wakes up and may
\ LET
2 in front of any player, pladng that
~~ DISEASED Ey ee
El The Diseased wakes up and must place atit)face downin the empty Traitor spot
ie pg of be face down a8 onthe Marks boards.
J, Player adjacent to her, retuming th Aplayer who receives the Mark of the Traitor only wins
ji} Players onghnl Mark (without 1oing someone sean hiteam ile. the player with
tit face downtothe Marks boards. thelakof the Tors than pesoncn sea,
pr por 4 bk jd the peed player (or a the Mark ofthe Traitor has noeffect.
player with the Mark of Disease) cannot win, even iaatoris i
frm hl Howes, Fo wie tnt This Thelnstigatorisonthevilager team.
playerstill counts, andif the Diseas isease
Heke deuce (J
PBC pier of he ming een wip dcict The Instigator opens her eyes, and then may
Foie for the Diseased Mark of Disease players win. Dlacet Pe ht of ay
The Diseased isonthe villager team. player
“Diseased, wale up. ace aMarkof Diseasein fetgghedcss you des
front of the layer to your leftorright” PRIEST
The Diseased opens her eyes, and then must \ .
placea Mark of Disease in front of a player ob The Priest wakes up and must place a
directly to theirleftor to their right. Y i
os may place a Mark of arity in front of
Diseased, dose youreyes! pa oneal angi ad
AFR that players Gi vk (without
CUPID looking at them) face down in the
 Gidveles ip and my poe po empty Garity spotson the Marks boards.
| “two of Love face down in front ts il
va | anos i ie po The Priests on thevillaer team.
A orginal Marks ace down (withot oe .
2 looking at them) in the empty Love: is SE Pa fai
spotsontheMarksboards. Maroy ONE ay OLE)
Players who receive the Marks of Love walie up when The Piel oor fis Teves timelfy
lft ih ve nlow vit, likof Gora oy plocellarof
either player s killed, the other dies as well. Players Clarity in front of any other player.
with the Markof Love remain on their arent teams. i He Cillibes
Gpidisonthevillgertean. it


-
_ 7 RSSASSIN “Nsassin, wake up. Place the Mark ofthe Assas-
Ge Thehssassinvakes up and must place sininfrontofany player”
AAR elrkoftelsasinonany a ; The Assassin opens his eyes, and then must
Og es Ee sd
AlN players L place the Hark ofthe Assassin infront of
“®™ (without looking at it) face down in any player.
£7" the empty Assasin spot on the Marks i
Bed pric sasin ake upandoo he
; x ; ssassin thee sno Assasin, place the Mark
Thelcesh ant win Lis [] sted ofthe Assassininfront of any player.”
fen The Bs Hote 131 ls of NISdpeis bos oem beter and
theendofthe game nado wi The Assis looks for the Assassin (whose eyes arestill
unique in that if he wins, other teams can still meet Cp ie ents hielo he
their winning conditions and win, soit possibleto en places the Mark ofthe Assassin n front
have the Assasin win along vith the Vampires, the of any player.
villagers, oreven the Taner, “Assasin Apprentice Assassin, dose your
Hit bppen BA Rs Le ae
othe hsasin tte ndofhe game he ony isi
himself die.
The ssasinis onbis own eam. NIGHT
After Dusk, all players must open thir eyes an look
“Assassin, wakeup and plac the Markofthe attheirHors but not athe ars),
Assassininfiont of any player”
The Assassin opens his eyes, and then must “Everyone, wake up and sedtetly view your
placea Mark of the Assassin in front of any Mark
player. Everyone wakes up and secretly looks at
PR os theirMars.
“Breryane, dose yours.
APPRENTICE ASSASSIN
AN
2 Tne Ms wes PLAYERS IN LOVE
immediately after the Assassin i
del pls te lor of he asin Murpinenduch sos Seb
EFT Font of a lye, whie the Asasins Seno are lo ie
ING ona plas whieh dissin ZS fr of ave) are cleo vake up
Assn ols fo the Assasin pd the A andlobk br bie pars 0
Assasin looks ore). th. The player MHS
of Love are ke: fone of the ies, the ather one.
The pence Assn f the hsasin ies The desasuel
pprenice Assasin does not have to be lve at the jo §

s 1 possible that only one player will have the Mark
endofthe game inorder to win. i te Fr it Dae fs
thers no Assi, the Apprentice Assasins andor Agence Assit the ae nts
place the Mark ofthe Assassin n front of any player, ase, the Markof Love has no effect on th player who
andonlywisiiepler vite rkftichsas: hi
sin(induding herself) dies. se 8 of Love dos os cimge he players
The Apprentice Assasinison her own team. team affiation.


“Ifyouare in Love, wake upand lookforyour ed GREMLIN

loveinteret” d & The Gremlin wales up and may switch

Players who have a Mark of Love must wake Be Vartoar ard but AIUBRE

any two players, but may not look at
up and look around foranother layer who (| LAT

Has their eyes open.

; . TheGremiinis on thevillaertean.

Lovers, doseyoureyes?

“Gremiin wake up Youmay switch Marks or
— MARKSMAN rdsbetweenanytwoplaers”
The Gremlin opens his eyes, and then may
u The Marksman wakes - and may switch Marks or cards between any two
view one layer’ card and/or another players including himself).
© player's Mark (but not the same player A y

3 Z. ifviewingbothaMarkand a card). ‘Gremlin, close your eyes”

ud The Marksman son the villager team. ARTIFACTS & VAMPIRE

Haman, woke oumayewtheariot ras west ore gen

ane playerand the Markofanother layer” is Bplay the Cin are

The Marksman opens his eyes and may look == avaiable nDaybrea. Artifacts can

atthe cardin front ofone player and he be found in Daybreak; Bonus Pack

Harkinfrontof another layer 1, and BonusPack2.

“Marksman, dose youreyes” When playing with Artifacts oe-changing Artifacts
Ae Na ot eG not TR
ersardar rl instance, the: I fan-

PICKPOCKET ner Artifact overides the Merk of the Vampire (which
| The Pidpodet wakes up and may overrode theteam ofthat playersoriginal card), mak
exonge is rkfohelarkofn. ght pra one nd Vom.
9 {ther player, and then views hs NW ger orks affect the ole that the Artfact has
ge changed the layerintofany).

Ihe DAP E Eyer Bory Ifyou are using all the Artifacts, you coud end up
idpcet ven oumayecange ou a much hee
Bi ee hehe gers ame goes The

I ippens, refer tothe section on Epic Battles to deter

fk ew Mart” mine the winner(s)

The Pickpocket opens his eyes, and then may

exchanglisHrk it aoter ployer

Mark. Fhe does so, h then looks at his new

Mark.

“Pickpocket, dose your eyes”


A Renfield: The Doppelginger-Renfield wakes up
DOPPELGANGER fie hed 5 il re
& VAMPIRE {ower their hands, and continue pointing at the
int ofthe Maiko heVampie after fenild
Wot. rn recipient of the Mark of the Vampire after Renfiel
Puls BA ow he A closes his eyes). She must take the Doppelganger
alee laine bond ger Markofthe Batand places ton herself:
Marks" below) on the therside oftheMarks boards; Diseased: The Doppelginger-Diseased must
these ar for we seal and oy the Dopp. placethe Doppelganger Mark Disease on nad
gangerifsheneedstouseaMark ThereisnoDoppel- jacent player when she first wakes up.
CRIA LI CR ai Cupid: The Doppelginger Cupid may place te
The Depp initially wales up ~~ tWO Doppelgingct rs of Love on any two
before the Vampires use the induded players when she first wakes up; ths could rest
omit cata in more than two people waking up i love, and
© with One ght when playing with Tore than two people who have Marks of Love at
apie). She aso may ve dp atef the end of the game, with up to four pole dying
therearenight oes uch asthe Gremin) present, ifanyoneaf thems edt the end of the game.
The Doppelganger does the following based onwhat Instigator: The Doppelganger Instigator may
she sees ies marked witha fre acon that he PICe he Doppeizihaer Marl of the Traitor on any
Doppelginges doe ened My): player when she first wakes up.
Canyon THe DOT EE at ces oth Priest: The Doppelginger-Priest wakes up after
andhnseadbecoméstherte tot the Copyat views the Priest and must place a Doppelganger Mark of
(but does not wake up at night when he Copycat Clarity on herself and may place a Doppelganger
uses his new center card night power, if any). Marcof Clarity on one other player.
fi naar Vara Assassin: The Doppelganger Assassin must place
We HT lmpisales i Doppelinger Mark of the sssn on any
A layer when she wakes up afte the Assassin. The
The Master: The Doppelginger-Master wakes up ati: Assassin doesn't know who the Doppel-
with the other Vampires. If a Vins (including ToL is, but winsif either the Assassin or
the original Master) points at the niner. the Doppleganger Assassin i killed.
Master the Doppelanger ase wi nt die. § 2 ) ;
the Doppelganger Master pointsat the Master, the ~The Assassin and Doppelganger Assassin both win
Masten will note, ifany player with a Mark of the Assassin dies (even
; if that was not the Mark of the Assassin that they
The Count: The Doppelganger-Count wakes up originally placed in front of a player).
with the other Vampires. She wakes up after the 3 ; &
Count and must place the Doppelganger Mark of ~~ Apprentice Assassin: The Doppeisinger opens
Tear onan plas tice Assasin wakes up after the Apprentice Assas-
sinduring the Assassins Duskaction—the Assassin
She DD Be
RO Tan,
EER
T oY gle = 72 0 @
Doppelganger 5 dB 25 @B en SEN
mares St gle oy OF © ©


doesnt close his eyes until the Doppelganger Ap- co NIGHT. --
prentice Assassin completes her action. flows,
i #0: Sentinel
Marksman: The DoppelgingerMarksman wakes d
up after the Marksman, ee il
Pickpocket: The Doppelginger-Pickpocket wakes £2:C MysticWolf
upafter the Pickpocket. #:Minion
Gremlin: The Doppelginger-Gremiin vakes up Lal Lp
after the Gremlin. Priel ios nd
#41Tung Tat goes Bumpin theligh)
#5: Seer
NIGHT WAKE ORDER ME el
WITH VAMPIRE, ONE $5 Marman
NIGHT & DAYBREAK a Hy tgs Homan
The following s a list of all the roles that are woken #6: Witch
atnightfrom theoriginal OneNight Ultimate Weremolf foGdgoder
me sequel Doe Vapi the tw Bonus #7:Troublemaleer
Fk el ti ieee esi I le #78:Vilageldiot
five to each other (only call th roles that are in your 7G hur Seer
game): #7-Ca:Doppelganger-Aura Seer
cee DUSKee os #D:Gremin 3
Hat 7D oppelganger Genin
CE Bm
#6B:The Cunt BR a oma
foi: lomeoliogie 49-Ga: Doppelganger Squire
wetellell #92: Beholder
os Gi Doppelatioe: nf '#9-Za: Doppelganger-Behalder
£01 de #10: Revealer
Edn #10a; Doppelganger-Revealer
Ein #11: Qrator
#2 i
: SIN #11a: Doppelganger-Curator
1 on sages onc dion re
iT " light Ultimate Werewolf are never woken
= bj Dompelhnger Jasin upat night. The Bodyguard and Dream Wolf
5 Aponte Reset from Daybreak are never woken up at night.
SOBRE GANGSTA PR sas The Cursed and Prince from Bonus Pack Tare:
never woken up at nigh.


ss = » In cases where all Werewolves, Vampires or village
2 in team members are inthe center, winning conditions
a are noma, and only one players led.
x & 3H SPECIAL CASES WHEN
COMBINING GAMES
EPIC BATTLES: Ifthe Prince (Bonus Pack 1) has the Mark ofthe Vam-
VAMPIRES VS. pir hia Vanpieandon thevanpetean but he
«cannot die.
VILLAGERS VS. Ifthe Cursed (Bonus Pack 1) has the Mark of the Vam-
WEREWOLVES pi ad a lero paints im dun the vote,
Jou can fe Varies igs, and Weewobes FEI
(from OneNightand Daybreak), in thesame game. Ifthe Bodyguard Daybreak) has the Mark of the Vam-
Val theeae he game and active i. actly in Rl Fo cannot De lel
front of at least one pl ono [nice on] Ifaplayerhas the Shield token from the Sentinel (Day-
gout = tropes wil be led dung the brea ony scr rte, ot fis Hak
vote: the player with the most votes and the player .
ith the and most vots (inthis vote oun fhe Copycat cad tarts as ener card ands er
i I 1vot given toa player by a card ike the Drunk (ne light)
itis the 2nd highest number. fthere sa ti for most 7 Wien (a 10, tht player on the
votes, only those tied forthe most votes are killed. If ~~ 8h TE pi Ripe L HUE
there isn'ta tie for the most votes, and there isa tie ~~ '¢2m anchasnospecalpower.
for 2nd most vote, the person with the most votes playerith the Mark of Fearmay not do any part of
is killed and those with the 2nd most votes are aso their night ction, induding opening their eyes. How-
Killed. If it is determined that either Werewolves, ever, if another night actin requires that you putout
Vampires, or Villagers were notin| lid (becausethose your thumb, you must do that. The Sept to this
ards werein the center, then only the playerfs) with is that the Dreamwolf (Daybreak with a Mark of Fear
themes os ng shee atest2ae led. nol put out is thumb nial hen Werehes
Both ofthe win conditions below must be fufled for wake, butmust putouthis thumb for the Minion (One
eachteamtowin: Night or Squive BonisPack).
—— &..4 Ifa Werewolf (OneNighi) has he Mark of the Vampire,
Win condition Win condition 2 he tl wakes up wih thet Weewoive It hess
’ Al aVampire and wins with the vampire team.
Vampire yerayolfmust NOMBRE if there is no Mark ofthe Assn nthe gam the
can be killed i Assassin (or Apprentice Assassin) is a simple villager,
and wins with the Vilage team, This can happen if
Vilage, Mtleast1 Atleast] the Assassin (or Apprentice Assassin) card starts in
eager” Vampitemustbe Werewolf mustbe the middieand sgiventoa player via the Witch (Day-
Killed Killed break), Drunk (Oneliight, oranotherrole.
Atleast When playing EpicBattes all Werewolvesarein the
Werewolf bE be NoWerewshes ete butateast one player sa inion (One Night)
Team led may bellled or Squire (Bonus Pack), only one player dies during
the vote (because thereare no Werewolves).


Gas To help track who has the most
CHERR) votes, use the induded double-
E i | sided 41 and Lik giving
oes) them to the (s) who receive
RIES themostandzndmost votes,
THANKS PLAYTESTERS
Garo Agac Dota Goge pac Tonic an pial Mortara Troms Boomer
rer, ic retcneider, Tay Carte Steven Ch, ay Cron, Adam Copel Ctherne Wnt pean.
Audrey Cueto, Eric dens, Shawna Flener, Jason Fox, Matt Gallaer, Shelley Ganschow, Doug Garrett, Ek eins,
Leas, Wy ra Keer Somuel esa Hey Ker, Emmy Kc, Kes Edvard Lae
Zar, Dean Lizardo, Jonathan McCrary, Kaiya McCrary, Rowan McCrary, Becky Milner, Scott Joseph Moly,
John Moore, Liam Moore, Nicholas Moore, Richard New, Lan bam, Colby Nichols, Marcelo Nishimura, Imran
Pran psa ran Are Richards Loven ec Roy yc Jefe St, Ta SiS Shuster,
Tony Sadek, Mark wok, Mark Smit la Stand Michll arson, Bemardo Tels Vin) Linda Vo,
Ray Wisnesk, Jon Woddell Alan Wong, Gyde Wright, Gordon Wright, and many others.
ABOUT THE DESIGNERS
Ted Alspadis the designer of sever umes inducing he ge tina Wem, sts of Had King
Ludwig, Ultimate Werewolf and Suburbia, He ive na secluded fortress somewherein North America with his
wie, son, daughter, dog, and two cas, all of whom dai nottobe vampires. Ted doesnt believe any of them.
Alihisa Okuiis the designer of Japan's One Night Werewolf.
ABOUT THE ARTIST
Brazilian artist Gus Batts ha illustrated more than 50 children's books, and is the artist for One Night
Ultimate Werewolf and One Night Ultimate Werewolf Daybreak. See more of his fantastic artwork at
www.gusbatts daportfoliocom.
(Jy(% 7
bézierg ] = lS
THE NEW CLASSICS A 4
One Night Uttimate Werewolf, One Night Ultimate Werewolf
Daybreak, One Night Utimate Vampire, and these ruesare \
‘Copyright 201 Ted Alspach and Bezier Games, Inc
All Rights Reserved. /


ONE NIGHT PLAYMATS lds!
Peg
Al Figidw
. S02 Lh RSE
It a } ONE NIGHT UATE WEREWOLF
easy BONUS PACK 1
me Bonus Pack 1 contain 3 ew oles: the ura Seer, who knows who
VIREAK Bg viewedor moved a arc the Prince, who can't be killed; and the Cursed,
GE oe  yiotumsinaaeewan Heroes ri ones
three new artifacts and hee akemative artwork cards for Werewolves
or pr TE IE LE TE
cra mel 8 A
tw beergames om. k we =
3) oe |
A 3
ONE NIGHT CARD SLEEVES £4 by 4 9
\
ROL BAGKS
SIO PAGES
osu Zant new lsh rence wholsnte
Tannerteam; the Beholder, who knows whothe eeri the Squire who
son th Werewof team andknows if an of them have been duanged
during the igh; an the Thing that goes bump the night) wh
Gos ump he might I 0 Ickes tw Hew arcs and wo
: : temative artwork cards forthe Vampire and See. Order Bonus Puck 2
Yer cus key podsig thee itty cle dec Bes aves ww csmeson.
re —- béziergames,
2 \ v=
/ das = NICE
N=NCIE DETR ATI E
bh es pari DAYBREAK
WEREWOLE | Seri
ST 1 rr Ee
ive st iio rl EE Ci te
Th es Bt nt pe ahs PS, md rt ho plc eos sian le
Ee on be Ce Ell iectly from Bezier Games at www bezier games com.
bezergames. om.
