Contents
108 Cards as follows:
19 Blue Cards – 0 to 9
19 Green Cards – 0 to 9
19 Red Cards – 0 to 9
19 Yellow Cards – 0 to 9
8 Draw Two Cards – 2 each in blue, green, red and yellow
8 Reverse Cards – 2 each in blue, green, red and yellow
8 Skip Cards – 2 each in blue, green, red and yellow
4 Wild Cards
4 Wild Draw Four Cards
Object of the Game
Be the first player to get rid of all of your cards in each round and score points for the cards your
opponents are left holding. Points in rounds accumulate and the first player to reach 500 points wins.
Setup
1. Each player draws a card; the player that draws the highest number deals (count any card with a
symbol as zero).
2. The dealer shuffles and deals each player 7 cards.
3. Place the remainder of the deck facedown to form a DRAW pile.
4. The top card of the DRAW pile is turned over to begin a DISCARD pile. NOTE: If any of the Action
Cards (symbols) are turned over to start the DISCARD pile, see FUNCTIONS OF ACTION CARDS for
special instructions.
Let’s Play
The person to the left of the dealer starts play.
On your turn, you must match a card from your hand to the card on the top of the DISCARD pile,
either by number, colour or symbol (symbols represent Action Cards; see FUNCTIONS OF ACTION
CARDS).
EXAMPLE: If the card on the DISCARD pile is a red 7, the player must put down a red card OR any
colour 7. Alternatively, the player can put down a Wild card (See FUNCTIONS OF ACTION CARDS).
If you don’t have a card that matches the one on the DISCARD pile, you must take a card from the
DRAW pile. If the card you picked up can be played, you are free to put it down in the same turn.
Otherwise, play moves on to the next person in turn.
You may also choose NOT to play a playable card from your hand. If so, you must draw a card from the
DRAW pile. If playable, that card can be put down in the same turn, however you may not play any
other card from your hand after the draw.
®
Card Game
7+ 2-10

Functions of Action Cards
Draw Two Card – When you play this card, the next player must draw 2 cards
and miss their turn. This card may only be played on a matching colour or on
another Draw Two card. If turned up at the beginning of play, the same rule applies.
Reverse Card – When you play this card, the direction of play reverses (if play is
currently to the left, then play changes to the right, and vice versa). This card
may only be played on a matching colour or on another Reverse card. If this card
is turned up at the beginning of play, the dealer goes first, then play moves to
the right instead of the left.
Skip Card – When you play this card, the next player is “skipped” (loses their
turn). This card may only be played on a matching colour or on another Skip card.
If a Skip card is turned up at the beginning of play, the player to the left of the
dealer is “skipped,” hence the player to the left of that player starts play.
Wild Card – When you play this card, you get to choose the colour that
continues play (any colour including the colour in play before the Wild card was
laid down). You may play a Wild card on your turn even if you have another
playable card in your hand. If a Wild card is turned up at the beginning of play,
the person to the left of the dealer chooses the colour that continues play.
Wild Draw 4 Card – When you play this card, you get to choose the colour that
continues play PLUS the next player must draw 4 cards from the DRAW pile and
lose their turn. However, there is a hitch! You may only play this card when you
do NOT have another card in your hand that matches the COLOUR on the DISCARD
pile (but it is acceptable to play this card if you have matching number or Action
Cards). If turned up at the beginning of play, return this card to the deck and pick
another card.
NOTE: If you suspect that a Wild Draw 4 card has been played on you illegally
(i.e. the player has a matching card), then you may challenge that player. The
challenged player must show you (the challenger) their hand. If guilty, the
challenged player must draw the 4 cards instead of you. However, if the
challenged player is innocent, you must draw the 4 cards PLUS an additional 2
cards (6 total)!
Going Out
When you play your next-to-last card, you must yell “UNO” (meaning “one”) to indicate that you have
only one card left. If you don’t yell “UNO” and you are caught before the next player begins their turn,
you must draw two cards.
Once a player has no cards left, the round is over. Points are scored (see SCORING) and play starts over
again.
If the last card played in a round is a Draw Two or Wild Draw Four card, the next player must draw the
2 or 4 cards respectively. These cards are counted when the points are totaled.
If no player is out of cards by the time the DRAW pile is depleted, the DISCARD pile is reshuffled and
play continues.

Scoring
The first player to get rid of their cards in a round receives points for all of the cards left in their
opponents’ hands as follows:
All number cards (0-9) Face Value
Draw Two 20 Points
Reverse 20 Points
Skip 20 Points
Wild 50 Points
Wild Draw Four 50 Points
Once the score for the round has been tallied, if no player has reached 500 points, reshuffle the cards
and begin a new round.
Winning the Game
The WINNER is the first player to reach 500 points.
Alternative Scoring and Winning
Another way to score points is to keep a running tally of the points each player is left with at the end
of each round. When one player reaches 500 points, the player with the lowest points is the winner.
©2012 Mattel. All Rights Reserved.
Dystrybutor: Mattel Poland Sp. z o.o., Warsaw Trade Tower 31 p., ul. Chłodna 51, 00-867 Warszawa.
Importuotojas: UAB „Rimonne Baltic“, Savanorių pr. 192 - 306, LT – 44151, Kaunas, Lietuva.
Maaletooja: OÜ Rimonne Baltic, Merivälja tee 5–E220, 11911 Tallinn.
Sia Rimonne Rīga, Ūnijas iela 11a, Rīga, Latvija, LV 1039
Распространяется OOO «Маттел» уполномоченный представитель фирмы Mattel, в России и
СНГ. 17105, Москва, Варшавское шоссе, 9, стр. 1Б.
Mattel Europa B.V., Gondel 1, 1186MJ Amstelveen, Nederland.
W2085-0629