[Page 3]
Reading a card ◄
Page 8► Complete Rules for Dominion and All Its Expansions v.11.0 ©2024 N. Knutsen
Changing card properties
Some abilities (such as Bridge, Highway and
your − Cost token) can cause cards to have an-
other cost than the printed cost at periods during
the game. Costs can’t go below . (The costs of
Events and Projects cannot be changed.)
Your Estate token can change the abilities and types of
your Estates. Capitalism and Enlightenment can change
the types of certain cards. Coppersmith and Envious can
change the play ability of certain Treasures. Charlatan
changes the play ability and type of Curse.
The pre-2019 version of Band of Misfits (and Overlord)
could change its own abilities, name, cost and types.
The pre-2019 version of Lantern could change the play
ability of Border Guard.  Readingacard
Basic setup
BasicsetupEach player takes 7 Coppers and 3 Estates to form
their starting deck.
The cards in the Supply are the cards that are
available to be bought. Place the following piles
of cards face up on the table to form the Supply:
Basic Treasure card piles: Copper (60 cards
minus the cards players start with), Silver (40
cards), and Gold (30 cards).
Basic Victory card piles: 12 Estates, 12 Duch-
ies, and 12 Provinces.
Curses: 10 cards in a 2-player game. Add an-
other 10 to the pile for each additional player.
10 Kingdom card piles: You can select which
Kingdom card piles to include in any way you
choose, but here’s how to select them ran-
domly: Shuffle the Randomizer cards of the
Kingdom cards you have (or want to include),
and draw 10. Each pile of Victory cards should
include 12 cards; all other Kingdom card piles
should include 10 cards.
Also place the Trash card or Trash mat to indicate
the trash pile (or “the trash”).
If playing with 2 players: Use 8 cards instead of
12 in all Victory piles—both basic and Kingdom
card piles.
If playing with 5 or 6 players: Use 3 more Prov-
inces per player (so either 15 or 18). It’s recom-
mended to use more Coppers, Silvers and Golds;
with the Treasures from Intrigue (1st ed.), Base
Cards or another copy of the Base game, you have
twice as many.
You may also use more basic Treasures when playing with
less than 5 players. This should be decided during setup;
don’t add more Treasure cards during the game.
Randomly choose the starting player. When play-
ing several games, the starting player is the player
to the left of the winner of the last game. If there
was a tie in the previous game, randomly choose
the starting player from the players that didn’t win.
Players take turns in clockwise order.
Each player shuffles their deck and draws 5
cards to form their starting hand. Basicsetup
Special setup
Alchemy
Special setupIf any Kingdom card has in its cost, include the
16 Potion cards in the Supply. 
Prosperity
Determine randomly whether to play with Colo-
nies, based on the proportion of cards from Pros-
perity among the 10 random Kingdom cards. This
can be done by checking whether one of the Ran-
domizer cards is from Prosperity, e.g. the first card
drawn. (It should not be the same card you check
for Shelters.) If Colonies are used, include piles
of 12 Colonies and 12 Platinums in the Supply. (In
a 2-player game, use 8 Colonies.)
If Trade Route (not included in 2nd Edition) is in
the game: Put a Coin token on each Victory Sup-
ply pile, and put the Trade Route mat on the table.
Regarding identifying Victory piles, see SPLIT PILES: PILE
TYPE AND COST § IV. 
Cornucopia
If Young Witch is in the game: Choose (randomly)
an extra Kingdom card pile costing or and
add it to the Supply. Cards from that pile are Bane
cards (referred to by Young Witch).

[Page 4]
Your turn ◄
Page 12► Complete Rules for Dominion and All Its Expansions v.11.0 ©2024 N. Knutsen
II. GAME RULES: ESSENTIAL RULES
Your turn
Yourt urnYour turn consists of the Action phase, followed
by the Buy phase, followed by the Clean-up phase.
You start your turn with 1 Action and 1 Buy. This
means you can play one Action card in your Ac-
tion phase, and buy one card in your Buy phase.
A clearer way to view this might be that you have
three pools in the game: your Action pool, your
Buy pool and your money pool. Each turn
always starts like this: Your Action pool has 1
Action, your Buy pool has 1 Buy, and your
money pool is empty. In this document we will
use this terminology. 
A—Action phase
You may play an Action card from your hand.
Follow the instructions on the card. See PLAYING A
CARD. This uses up one Action from your Action
pool.
Certain cards add one or more Actions to your
Action pool. These cards say +1 Action,
+2 Actions, etc. If you have an Action left in your
Action pool after you have fully resolved the
last Action card you played from your hand, you
may play another Action card. You may keep
playing Actions as long as your Action pool is
not empty. 
B—Buy phase
Your Buy phase consists of two parts.
In the first part of your Buy phase, you may
play as many Treasure cards as you like from
your hand, in any order. For each card, follow the
instructions on the card. Treasures produce
(Coins), which are added to your money pool,
but may also do other things. See PLAYING A
CARD.
The Action card Market tells
you to draw one card,
then add 1 to your Action
pool, then add 1 to your
Buy pool, and then add
to your money pool.
Individual playmat showing your play area and what you do on your turn. (Your draw pile is called your deck.)
Published by Spielbox magazine on behalf of Hans im Glück (issues 1 and 2 in 2010).

[Page 23]
Card Reference ◄
Page 61► Complete Rules for Dominion and All Its Expansions v.11.0 ©2024 N. Knutsen
Baron
New version: See “DO X FOR”.
Barracks p. 40
You start each turn with 1 extra Action in your
Action pool, so normally 2.
Basilica p. 9, 25, 39, 42
 2022 (current) version. See PREVIOUS VERSIONS
OF SOME CARDS for the pre-2022 version.
New version 2022: Basilica now has a when-
gain instead of when-buy ability, but only
when you gain a card in your Buy phase.
Basilica can trigger several times on your
turn. If you buy several cards, then for each of
them, check if you have at least left in your
money pool at that time. If so, take 2 to-
kens from Basilica.
Clarification: If you gain a card that gives or
+Coffers, you may resolve that (spending the Cof-
fers) before Basilica checks your money pool. This
could be Blessed Village (with certain Boons), March-
land, Nomads, Silk Merchant, Spices, a Treasure via
Guildhall or Mining Road, or an Action card via Abun-
dance. Also see TRIGGERED ABILITY (you could also use
a Way that gives ).
Likewise, you can get from trashing Nomads or
trashing via Priest; see GAIN ON WHEN-TRASH: Trash on
when-gain.
 Also see Possession 7.
Bat p. 10
You may choose to not trash any cards.
If you trashed any cards, you must ex-
change this for a Vampire. (See EXCHANGING
§ IV.)
You can trash cards even if it’s impossible to
exchange the Bat for a Vampire.
The cost of Bat is for any ability that refers to its
cost.
 See TRIGGERED ABILITY (first trash, then exchange).
You trash several cards at once. Also see Divine Wind 9.
Baths p. 9, 40
 See Possession 5.
Battle Plan
Battle Plan lets you rotate any Supply pile,
but it only makes a difference to rotate a split
pile.
Clarification: If you rotate the Ruins or
Knight pile, you get to look at the necessary
cards on top of the pile, one at a time, to see
how many identical ones there are.
See “DO X FOR”.
Battlefield p. 9, 39, 171
This might trigger on an opponent’s turn.
Bauble p. 23, 39, 42, 179
SEVERAL OPTIONS (four): +Buy; + , +Favor;
or the ongoing ability mentioned below.
(Pick two.)
You may SET UP A LATER ABILITY (ongoing
ability) for the rest of this turn: When you
gain a card, you may put it onto your deck.
Clarification: You have to choose the options
first, then do them, in the order given.
See MOVE GAINED CARD and TRIGGERED ABIL-
ITY (when-gain).
Clarification: See TRIGGERED ABILITY (playing Bauble
on when-gain, you can put the gained card on your
deck). Also see Gondola 9.
 Also see Kiln 5.
Bazaar
Beggar p. 24, 38
The Coppers are GAINED TO YOUR HAND.
See REACTION TO ATTACK. New version: See
“DO X TO”.
You may react with several Beggars to the
same played Attack.
From rulebook: Beggar may only be dis-
carded from your hand.
If you react with for instance Caravan Guard or
Diplomat and draw a Beggar, you may still
react with it. (See REACTION CARDS: RESOLVING
REACTIONS AND TIMING § III.)
From rulebook: When you discard this as a
Reaction, the first Silver is GAINED TO YOUR
DECK. The second one is gained to your dis-
card pile.
 You gain each card in turn, see TRIGGERED ABILITY.
Berserker p. 13, 25, 39
You gain a card, see CARD COSTS.
